Academic Handbook Current Edition Medical Studies (MEDI) MEDI 0001  Medicine Exchange Unit 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900611  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 0002  Medicine Exchange Unit 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900612  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 0003  Medicine Exchange Unit 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900613  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 0004  Medicine Exchange Unit 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900614  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 0005  Medicine Exchange Unit 5  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900615  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 1002  Foundations of Medicine 1  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400861  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). This subject integrates the foundational sciences with clinical skills. Students learn the structure and function of the human body, particularly, whole body organisation, basic anatomy, nutrition and metabolism, function and pathology of the gastrointestinal system (including liver), cardiovascular system and respiratory system. In addition, students will gain an understanding of health psychology, patient experience, the medical system, identifying risk, errors in medical practice, managing error and basic procedures such as hand washing. A particular focus will be the communities that make up Greater Western Sydney. Students will also participate in clinical tutorials and will gain skills in history taking and communication in Session 1H and skills in history and examination of the gastrointestinal tract, cardiovascular system and respiratory systems during Session 2H. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 1004  Clinical Sciences 1  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401276  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Foundational learning for medicine is provided in this yearlong subject that integrates the biomedical sciences through the use of authentic clinical scenarios. Small group problem based learning and bedside teaching with patients, scaffolded by lectures, tutorials and practicals cover each of the body systems in turn, so that students are well prepared for clinical learning. Students will also learn about the human context of health and disease, medical professionalism, the quality and safety of healthcare, evidence based practice, research and clinical skills through community visits, hospital based sessions and workshops.  The Professional Portfolio component within this subject will provide students in the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program with the means to monitor and support their acquisition of professional competencies in medicine. Supported by teaching sessions, learning resources and Professional Advisors, students will collate and review evidence of their learning, such as clinical assessments and case studies, preparatory work and outcomes from research and scholarly projects. By identifying and addressing their learning and professional development needs, students will create their own personalised learning journey as the basis for life-long learning in medicine. The Professional Portfolio will also prepare students for the portfolios used extensively in post graduate specialty training in medicine. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 1002  Foundations of Medicine 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 2002  Foundations of Medicine 2  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400862  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). This subject integrates the biomedical sciences with clinical skills. Students continue to build their knowledge of the structure and function of the human body, particularly:  renal, musculoskeletal, neuroscience, reproduction and development, endocrinology, infectious disease, immunology and cancer. In addition, students will gain an understanding of the human context of health and disease, global health, medical professionalism, the quality and safety of healthcare, evidence based practice and research skills. On clinical days, students will participate in bedside tutorials to further develop their skills in history and examination of body systems and will also learn how to carry out basic clinical procedures. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 1002  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 2003 - Clinical Sciences 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 2003  Clinical Sciences 2  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401277  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Foundational learning for medicine is provided in this yearlong subject that integrates the biomedical sciences through the use of authentic clinical scenarios. Small group problem based learning, bedside teaching with patients and procedural skills teaching scaffolded by lectures, tutorials and practicals cover each of the body systems in turn, so that students are well prepared for clinical learning. Students will also learn about the human context of health and disease, medical professionalism, the quality and safety of healthcare, evidence based practice, research and clinical skills through community visits, hospital based-sessions and workshops. The Professional Portfolio component within this subject will provide students in the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program with the means to monitor and support their acquisition of professional competencies in medicine. Supported by teaching sessions, learning resources and Professional Advisors, students will collate and review evidence of their learning, such as clinical assessments and case studies, preparatory work and outcomes from research and scholarly projects. By identifying and addressing their learning and professional development needs, students will create their own personalised learning journey as the basis for life-long learning in medicine. The Professional Portfolio will also prepare students for the portfolios used extensively in post graduate specialty training in medicine.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 1004  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 2002 Foundations of Medicine 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3002  Clinical Assessment Methods  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400879  This subject is designed to introduce students to basic principles and essential skills of physical examination and diagnostic/laboratory investigation procedures, required for successful approach to diagnosis of health impairment states. Primary contact health practitioners are expected to have sound understanding of disease presentation, techniques of patient interviewing and examination for collection of relevant clinical information as well as the ability to select appropriate laboratory tests and interpret their findings. This subject will also help students to develop fundamental clinical reasoning skills required in the medical decision making process.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): BIOS 2029 ANDNATS 1009 ANDNATS 1010  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7174 - Clinical Diagnosis  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3003  Integrated Clinical Rotations 1  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400810  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Integrated Clinical Rotations 1 is the first major clinical year of the MBBS program.  It consists of 10 weeks each in Surgery, Medicine and Medicine in Context (MiC), and 5 weeks in Critical Care.  Surgery, Medicine and Critical Care attachments will be at Campbelltown, Blacktown, Mt Druitt, Bankstown, Fairfield and Liverpool hospitals.  In Surgery and Medicine students spend 5 weeks in each of two sub-specialities.  In Critical Care students spend time in Emergency and Anaesthetics Departments.  The 10-week MiC attachment is conducted in two 5-week blocks and involves community-based aspects of the health care system including community organisations and general practice.  Students also have 3 Conference Weeks; tutorials in clinical communication skills; and undertake an assignment in Evidence-Based Medicine and 3 online Scientific Streams learning modules. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 2002  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3004  Medical Research Project  (60 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400813  This is a 60 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (30 credit points in each term). This subject is the principal component in the Bachelor of Medical Research. It aims to give students, enrolled in the Western Sydney University MBBS, the opportunity to develop their critical thinking and gain a more detailed experience in medical research than is provided in the medical program. It consists of a research project in any area of medical research for which the School can provide suitable supervision. Students will study the relevant literature, develop and conduct the program of research with the assistance of their supervisor, take part in research seminars in their research group, and present the results as a dissertation.    The main learning outcomes are a subset of the 15 Learning Tasks/Outcomes for the medical program as a whole, but will be achieved at a considerably higher level than is expected in the main MBBS program. The task numbers relate to the complete set in the MBBS learning outcomes.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 1002 ANDMEDI 2002  Co-requisite(s): Must pass two of the following- HLTH 3006 Methods of Scientific Researching HLTH 2021 - Research Methods (Quantitative and Qualitative) HLTH 1001 -Foundations of Research and Evidence-Based Practice  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3005  Professional Portfolio 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401257  This is a 10 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (5 credit point in each term). This subject is the second of five Professional Portfolio subjects which will provide students in the Doctor of Medicine (MD) course with the means to monitor and support their acquisition of professional competencies in medicine. Supported by workshops, resources and your Academic Supervisor, you will collate and review evidence of your learning, such as clinical assessments and case studies, preparatory work and outcomes from research and scholarly projects. By identifying and addressing your learning and professional development needs, you will create your own personalised learning journey as the basis for life-long learning in medicine. The Professional Portfolio will also prepare you for the portfolios used extensively in post graduate specialty training in medicine.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 1001 ANDMEDI 1003  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 2001  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3006  Applied Clinical Sciences 1  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401278  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Applied Clinical Sciences 1 is the first major clinical year of the Doctor of Medicine.  Students will apply and extend the knowledge and skills gained in previous subjects during clinical and community placement rotations.  Attachment modules Surgery 1 and General Medicine 1 each cover two placement rotations. The Critical Care 1 placement includes experience in the Emergency, Intensive Care, and Anaesthetics departments. The Medicine in Context 1 placement focuses on community-based aspects of the health care system, including community services and general practice. The Doctor of Medicine MD Scholarly Project attachment rotation will be conducted in a site suited to the student's medical research, service, or education project. Placement sites include the Campbelltown, Blacktown/Mt Druitt, Bankstown, Fairfield and Liverpool hospitals, and a variety of community organisations throughout the Greater Western Sydney region.  Theoretical Modules support student experiential learning and research skills development in the clinical and community placements. These are 'Evidence -based Medicine and Research Skills 1', 'Professional and Personal Development 1', 'Scientific Streams 1'. Students continue preparation of their Professional Practice Portfolio.  Students undertake a minimum of 1050 clinical practice hours, a 175- hour project rotation, and 3 conference weeks in this unit.  Travel and accommodation - Students are required to arrange and pay for their own travel, accommodation, and living expenses for the duration of the placement rotations.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 2003  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 3003 - Integrated Clinical Rotations 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3007  Professional Health Placement  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401406  This subject allows students to integrate and apply all learning accumulated throughout their Testamur major in health promotion, health services management or public health. It focuses on preparing students to professional practice by including 140h placement. This subject involves a 140hr work-integrated placement conducted at a health setting. Depending on availability, placements may be in-person, or hybrid.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3008  Mortuary Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 301394  This subject introduces the student to processes and techniques used in a forensic mortuary context. Students will undertake activities that prepare them for clinical placement with an operational forensic mortuary setting, which includes a brief placement within a NSW Forensic and Analytical Science Service (FASS) facility or NSW Organ and Tissue Donation Service. Student must have demonstrated full compliance with NSW Health placement requirements in the first year of their candidature before enrolling in this subject and 301128 Advanced Mortuary Practice. This subject, together with completion of 301128 Advanced Mortuary Practice is essential for graduates of this course seeking employment as a forensic mortuary technician with FASS.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Co-requisite(s): NATS 2004  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 3009  Foundational Diagnostic Imaging  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401468  This subject will introduce students to a range of diagnostic imaging modalities providing an overview of both the technical and practical aspects. Three imaging modalities will be covered, MRI, cardiac sonography and vascular sonography. Within the MRI module, you will learn how to view MRI images and compare them with CT/ultrasound as well as understand the clinical values of each modality and the risks associated. In the cardiac module you will learn the principles of cardiac ultrasound image acquisition, methods used to evaluate cardiac anatomy and function, and the essentials of complimentary tests such as electrocardiograms and stress tests. In the vascular module, undertaking non-imaging assessments will be covered, alongside imaging principles. The practical skills are aimed at providing students with a working knowledge of imaging modalities and enhancing students' prospects of successful application for a training position. The majority of this course is delivered online. However, students must attend a compulsory one-day face-to-face practical skills workshop at Blacktown clinical school.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 4001  Integrated Clinical Rotations 2  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400811  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Integrated Clinical Rotations 2 is the second major clinical year of the MB BS program.  It consists of 9 weeks in each of Paediatrics, Obstetrics & Gynaecology and Mental Health and four weeks in each of Oncology/Palliative Care and Community Research. There will also be 2 weeks of "Year 4 Campus Learning". These will be one week each and held at either Campbelltown Campus or Blacktown Clinical School.  During the year, students will be based at a number of appropriate hospitals throughout Sydney, Bathurst and Lismore.  Students will also undertake 3 online learning modules (Scientific Streams).  Students will complete a reflective portfolio. Slight variations in the delivery of ICR2 occur in the Rural clinical schools. Learning outcomes & assessment requirements do not differ.The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 3003  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 4002  Integrated Clinical Rotations 3  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400977  The Subject Outline for this subject can be found by clicking on the "Current MBBS, MD Subject Outlines" link in the left-hand menu. Integrated Clinical Rotation 3 is the first session of the third major clinical year of the MB BS program.  It consists of five weeks in each Medicine, Surgery, General Practice or Indigenous Health or ICU, ED & Anaesthetics.  There will also be two Conference weeks where all students will be based at either Campbelltown Campus, Macarthur Clinical School or Blacktown Clinical School.  Students will be based at a number of appropriate hospitals throughout Sydney.  Students will also undertake two online learning modules (Scientific Streams).  Students will also undertake a reflective portfolio. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 4001  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 4003  Integrated Clinical Rotations 4  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400978  Integrated Clinical Rotations 4 is the final subject in the MBBS course and consists of clinical rotations in Medicine, Surgery and two of General Practice, Indigenous Health and ICU/Emergency/Anaesthetics.  Students also undertake two Scientific Streams and two Conference weeks.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 4002 ORLGYA 7789  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 4004  Integrated Clinical Rotations General (ICR General)  (120 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401201  This is a 120 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (60 credit points in each term). Integrated Clinical Rotations General is a specific subject for students who have deficiencies in performance at the end of Integrated Clinical Rotations 3 or who have not completed Integrated Clinical Rotations 2 and Integrated Clinical Rotations 3. The content will be tailored to each student to enable them to achieve competence in medicine. The subject will run from the middle of one year to the middle of the following year and the examination assessment will be held in conjunction with Integrated Clinical Rotations 3.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 3003  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7789 - Integrated Clinical Rotations (General)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 4005  Professional Portfolio 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401259  This is a 10 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (5 credit point in each term). This subject is the third of five Professional Portfolio subjects which will provide students in the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program with the means to monitor and support their acquisition of professional competencies in medicine. Supported by workshops, resources and your Academic and Project Supervisors, you will collate and review evidence of your learning, such as clinical assessments and case studies, preparatory work and outcomes from research and scholarly projects. By identifying and addressing your learning and professional development needs, you will create your own personalised learning journey as the basis for life-long learning in medicine. The Professional Portfolio will also prepare you for the portfolios used extensively in post graduate specialty training in medicine.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 2001 ANDMEDI 3005  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 3001  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 4006  Honours Project  (Medicine)  (0 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401172  Students who meet prerequisite requirements are offered an opportunity in this Subject to undertake enhanced research and scholarship activities while enrolled in the Bachelor of Medicine / Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) 4641.5. A key objective is to assist students towards the independent application of knowledge and skills in the principles and methods of medical research on a specialist topic of their choice. With supervision, students will further develop their ability to critically evaluate theories and evidence in disciplines relevant to medicine, and to disseminate their work to a range of audiences. Prior to enrolment in the subject, students must have satisfactorily completed a Research Portfolio and given a 10 minute oral PowerPoint presentation summarising the research program and outcomes. The presentation is to be at a venue approved by the research supervisor and the supervisor must consider the presentation to be of a satisfactory standard.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 4002  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 4003  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 5001  Newborn and Infant Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject introduces students to the foundational concepts and knowledge of newborn and infant development required to understand the specialised area of infant health practice. Students will examine the key issues, concepts and topics that are specific to newborn and infant development.
This subject covers the techniques needed to carry out a comprehensive newborn examination, and to be able to assess common acute, chronic, and critical issues in infancy to ensure improved health outcomes.   Students will be provided with a practical approach to the management of newborn medical presentations, feeding and sleeping issues, and updates to the Australian Immunisation schedule.    
Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 5002  Behaviour, development and disability  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject provides guidance to students in conducting a thorough paediatric history and examination, including strategies to engage children and communicate effectively with parents. 
Students will develop skills to assess normal childhood developmental milestones and behaviours, and recognise key factors that indicate at-risk and vulnerable populations so they can benefit from timely interventions. This subject specifically addresses common conditions such as ADHD, autism and language delay.
This subject outlines non-pharmacological and pharmacological approaches to management for common behavioural and developmental issues in children.  Students will learn to implement management plans effectively and advocate for vulnerable populations, including children with disabilities.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 5003  Adolescent, mental health and health inequity  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject provides students with an informed, structured approach to common acute and chronic adolescent issues, including approaches to mental health (HEADSS), substance use, and sexual health assessments. This subject outlines evidence-based strategies in non-pharmacological and pharmacological management of common mental health conditions in adolescents and young adults.
This subject includes insights from clinical experts on improving health outcomes for refugee populations and current global paediatric health initiatives aimed at improving child health outcomes. 

Experienced academics, clinical experts and adolescent health practitioners will provide students with resources to effectively communicate with adolescents and their families, understanding informed consent and confidentiality.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 5004  Emergency and acute care  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject is designed to provide students with a systematic approach to assess common emergency presentations in children, including unwell infants, febrile children, and children with breathing difficulties. Students are guided by clinical experts in the provision of emergency care and appropriate referral pathways to maximise patient outcomes, minimise complications and avoid unnecessary hospital presentations. Students will learn to communicate effectively with parents enabling them to detect and manage common clinical situations and prevent adverse outcomes.  In this subject, students learn to identify children at risk and appropriately intervene and advocate to ensure safety and protection of these children.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 6001  Cardiorespiratory, ENT and Allergy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject provides participants with a systematic approach to the assessment of children with common cardiorespiratory, ENT and allergy presentations, a structured approach to management, and practical advice on communicating care plans and health promotion strategies with parents and carers. This subject specifically addresses chest pain, asthma, bronchiolitis, tonsillitis and dermatitis. Students will learn to differentiate between common food allergies and intolerances and arrange appropriate investigations to assist with diagnosis minimising cost and distress to the family. Throughout this subject, students will consider the specific health needs of our First Nations people to maximise health outcomes and close the gap.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 6002  Gastroenterology, Urology and other specialties  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject examines gastroenterological, urological and haematological presentations commonly encountered in paediatric clinical practice. It provides students with a systematic approach to assessment and practical advice on communicating with parents and carers. This subject focuses on common conditions in primary care, including the approach to abdominal pain, nocturnal enuresis and urinary tract infections.  Students learn the essential work-up and critical management for these conditions.  This subject also addresses the assessment and management of anaemia, bleeding disorders and childhood malignancy. 

This subject includes health promotion strategies and parental education to ensure parents recognise when there is a need for emergency care.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 6003  Infectious Disease and Autoimmune conditions  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject covers a structured approach to the recognition and assessment of acute and critical childhood infections commonly encountered in primary care, from common paediatric skin infections and gastroenteritis to bone and joint infections and meningitis. This subject also addresses antibiotic resistance and teaches best prescribing practices. Given the incidence and impact of paediatric skin infections globally, students will also develop a systematic approach to address health inequities experienced by children both nationally and internationally. This subject also addresses common childhood autoimmune conditions and juvenile arthritis, providing students with a systematic approach to assessment and management of these conditions.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 6004  Neurology, Musculoskeletal and Surgical problems  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject introduces the key features of a comprehensive neurological examination. Clinical experts will guide the student on the important clinical features to recognise, assess and manage acute, chronic, and critical neurological disorders. This subject specifically addresses the approach to the child with weakness, headaches in children and concussion.  It also addresses common surgical presentations providing students with a pathway of escalation of care. Participants will be provided with resources and advice for communicating the management plans of neurological and common surgical conditions with children, parents and carers and provide long-term surveillance and family support.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7002  Allergic Sciences 1  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401249  This subject will consist of four online modules dealing with the immunological and clinical aspects of allergic diseases.  These modules will cover basic immunology and fundamental theoretical and clinical concepts underlying Eczema and Contact Dermatitis, Urticaria and Angioedema, and Drug Hypersensitivity Reactions, Insect Allergy and Anaphylaxis.  The purpose of Allergic Sciences 1 is to provide students with sound knowledge of essential immunological principles and common allergic conditions.  Students will use self directed learning to link basic science with clinical understanding, and must attend a written exam at a university approved venue for one of the assessments.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7790 Allergic Sciences 1 AND LGYA 7791 Allergic Sciences 2 MEDI 7001 Allergic Sciences  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7003  Allergic Sciences 2  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401250  This subject will consist of four online modules dealing with the immunological and clinical aspects of allergic diseases.  These modules will cover fundamental theoretical and clinical concepts underlying Food Allergy, Allergic Airways Diseases, and Rhinoconjunctivitis, Sinusitis and Immunotherapy.  The purpose of Allergic Sciences 2 is to complement Allergic Sciences 1 and provide students with comprehensive knowledge for managing patients with allergic conditions in clinical practice.  Students will use self directed learning to link basic science with clinical understanding, and must attend a written exam at a university approved venue for one of the assessments.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7002  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7790 - Allergic Sciences 1 and LGYA 7791 - Allergic Sciences 2 MEDI 7001 - Allergic Sciences  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7004  Applications of Magnetic Resonance from Cancer to Neuroanatomy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401203  Magnetic resonance (MR) provides a suite of versatile information rich and non-invasive techniques of which magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy are the best known. These techniques have enormous applications across the sciences (e.g., inorganic and organic chemistry) but increasingly to medicine (e.g., to cancer diagnosis and treatment). Western Sydney University has state-of-the-art MR infrastructure and an international reputation in MR development. This subject will explore the diverse applications and teach experimental practice and fundamental physical principles that underpin all the MR-based techniques. It is intended for medical science, medical and science students who use/intend to use NMR/MRI technology or merely want a deeper understanding of its rapidly expanding capabilities (e.g., functional MRI) and applications.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7008  Chronic Disease Management in Rural Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401272  This subject will examine the pathophysiology, epidemiology, clinical presentation and treatment of chronic diseases in rural and remote settings in the Australian context. Students will develop systems to effectively manage chronic disease within their clinical environment and consider key aspects of the professional practice required of doctors caring for patients with chronic diseases. This subject will also introduce the concepts of collaboration with a multidisciplinary team.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7009  Clinical Allergy  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401064  This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term). This yearlong subject will consist of 50 hours of supervised consultation of patients with allergic diseases within the setting of a specialist Immunology/Allergy clinic.  The purpose of Clinical Allergy is to apply previously acquired knowledge of allergic diseases to patient care in real time. Students will be supervised by experienced Clinical Immunologists/Allergists and develop skills in allergy diagnosis and management of children and adults. Clinical experiences will include history taking, physical examination, skin prick testing and spirometry interpretation, and management of various allergic conditions.  Students will need to participate in online case conference discussions also, and attend two course workshops, the Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy (ASCIA) Annual Scientific Meeting and the Macarthur Series in Immunology.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7002 ANDMEDI 7003  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7792 - Clinical Allergy 1 LGYA 7793 - Clinical Allergy 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7011  Clinical Minimally Invasive Gynaecological Surgery 2  (30 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401057  This is a 30 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (15 credit points in each term).Students undertaking this subject will have a detailed knowledge of open abdominal surgery at commencement.  This subject will extend their knowledge in the practical aspects of laparoscopic surgery.  This subject will be completed in Year 2 of the program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7010  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7012  Critical Care: Skills and Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401271  This subject that will enhance the student's critical and practical clinical skills for rural generalist practice. The student will become familiar with common critical care presentations and develop a structured approach to the common practical skills of practice. They will also develop effective decision making skills that incorporate a team management approach. The development of these skills will be supported by a mandatory two day face to face practical simulation workshop.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7015  Diversity in Generalist Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401273  This subject will explore the diversity of populations and examine the complexities of health and health care delivery in rural and remote settings in Australia. Students will develop a structured approach to managing the undifferentiated clinical presentations in a rural practice setting and will also analyse cultural, social, community, population and health factors influencing the practice of rural and remote medicine. Critical reasoning skills will be developed and students will be encouraged to self-reflect on their current clinical situation.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7016  Endometriosis  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401058  This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   Endometriosis commonly presents with pelvic pain and infertility, with gynaecological surgery being a significant treatment option.  Surgery in women with endometriosis can be challenging, with gynaecological surgeons requiring advanced training and a multi-disciplinary approach to obtain the best patient outcomes.   This subject will provide the students with the opportunity to explore management aspects of endometriosis tailoring treatment options depending on the patient's symptoms and goals.   By enrolling in this subject, the student will be expected to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects of endometriosis, focusing on minimally invasive techniques. This includes exploring the pre-operative rationale to perform surgery, intra-operative nuances of surgical techniques used and post-operative care of importance to ensure the best outcomes for the patient.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7017  Gynaecological Surgery Ergonomics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401059  This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  This subject provides students with the knowledge on surgical ergonomics in both open and minimally invasive gynaecological surgery.    This subject will extend their knowledge in theoretical and practical aspects, focusing on strategies to maximise ergonomics and its effects on situational awareness, communication and leadership during gynaecological surgery.  Students will explore factors associated with gynaecological surgery ergonomics, such as surgeon and surgical assistant positions, theatre setup, incision sites, port placement and surgical techniques to maximise surgical ergonomics in order to reduce surgeon fatigue, injury and improve patient safety and outcomes.   It is expected the student will be able to perform operations safely, with economy of movement to optimise surgeon comfort and ultimately improve patient outcomes.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7021  Mental Health Aspects of Allergic Diseases  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401252  Allergic diseases are chronic conditions which can influence psychosocial wellbeing.  Early recognition of effects on mental health is essential to ensure optimal support and enhance quality of life.  This subject provides students with knowledge and skills to address mental health concerns in patients with allergic diseases.  Modules will cover the psychological effects of living with chronic disease, anxiety and depression, somatic symptom disorders and eating disorders.  Students will use online lectures, case discussion and evidence-based materials to explore key elements and strategies for effective mental health assessment and management in clinical allergy practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7002 ANDMEDI 7003 ORMEDI 7001  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7009  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7022  Nutritional Aspects of Allergic Diseases  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401251  Dietary and nutritional aspects of allergic diseases often need consideration in patient management.  This subject provides students with a detailed understanding of nutritional fundamentals and requirements especially for children and adults with food allergy.  Online learning materials and case discussion facilitated by an experienced dietitian will promote essential knowledge and practical skills.  Modules will provide the latest evidence on nutritional basics, weight management, diagnosis and management of food allergies and intolerances, food labelling, and early infant feeding recommendations. This content will complement the clinical experiences in the Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) and enhance clinical allergy practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7002 ANDMEDI 7003 ORMEDI 7001  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7009  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7023  Pelvic Anatomy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401061  This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  The student is expected to attain an advanced understanding and knowledge of the Anatomy of the Female Pelvis. The eventual aim is to become a competent surgeon in this field.  Detailed Pelvic Anatomy is a vital component required to attain the skills necessary for the performance of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery. Knowledge of the normal versus the abnormal anatomy is required for the correct identification of pelvic structures. When abnormal features are present caused by pathological changes, the student is expected to know how to recognise the distortion caused, thus paving the way to try and normalise the anatomy as best as possible.   The student should choose a topic relevant to the operations observed and learned. An analysis of the anatomy important to the topic should be presented in a detailed fashion. Evidence for any conclusions drawn or reflections made should be provided from a review of the literature.  An important aspect of detailed knowledge of Pelvic Anatomy is crucial in the avoidance or detection and management of complications at surgery.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7025  Port Entry  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400995  This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  Students undertaking this subject are expected to have a working knowledge on port entry techniques at commencement.  This subject will extend their knowledge in theoretical and practical aspects, focusing on the port entry techniques and strategies of port placement and management of port site complications.   Students will explore the multitude of port types which are commercially available in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery, the current technologies and tailoring their use in patients to provide optimal surgical outcomes.  By enrolling in this subject, the student will be expected to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects of minimally invasive port entry, exploring the pre-operative and intra-operative nuances of surgical planning and techniques. This will extend the student's knowledge so they can safely and effectively establish port entry in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7026  Power Modalities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400996  This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  A thorough understanding of the range of power modalities available when performing gynaecological surgery is a key fundamental concept to gynaecologists performing such surgery.  Students undertaking this subject are expected to have a working knowledge on power modalities at commencement.  This subject will extend their knowledge in theoretical and practical aspects.  Students will explore the physics behind various power modalities, its physiological effect on human tissue and potential complications related to each power modality.   Students will review and compare the current range of commercially available power modalities, assisting them to be competent with its use in a clinical setting and tailoring their use dependent on the type of surgery and pathology.   By enrolling in this subject, the student will be expected to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects of power modalities, exploring the nuances of surgical planning and techniques. This will extend the student's knowledge so they can safely and effectively use various power modalities in gynaecological surgery.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7027  Professional Portfolio 4  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401261  This is a 40 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (20 credit points in each term). This subject is the penultimate subject of five Professional Portfolio subjects which will provide students in the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program with the means to monitor and support their acquisition of professional competencies in medicine. Supported by workshops, resources and your Academic Supervisor, you will collate and review evidence of your learning, such as clinical assessments and case studies, preparatory work and outcomes from research and scholarly projects. By identifying and addressing your learning and professional development needs, you will create your own personalised learning journey as the basis for life-long learning in medicine. The Professional Portfolio will also prepare you for the portfolios used extensively in post graduate specialty training in medicine.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 3001 ANDMEDI 4005  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7006  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7028  Professional Portfolio 5  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401263  This is a 40 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (20 credit points in each term). This subject is the final subject of five Professional Portfolio subjects which will provide students in the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program with the means to monitor and support their acquisition of professional competencies in medicine. Supported by workshops, resources and your Academic Supervisor, you will collate and review evidence of your learning, such as clinical assessments and case studies, preparatory work and outcomes from research and scholarly projects. By identifying and addressing your learning and professional development needs, you will create your own personalised learning journey as the basis for life-long learning in medicine. The Professional Portfolio will also prepare you for the portfolios used extensively in post graduate specialty training in medicine.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7006 ANDMEDI 7027  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7007 ANDMEDI 7020  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7029  Reflective Clinical Allergy Practice  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401253  This is an online bridging subject for students with a Graduate Certificate in Allergic Diseases qualification or other recognised allergy training who wish to pursue further study in allergic diseases.  Students with acceptable prior learning to enrol in this subject will enter Year 2 of the Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) with the option to exit at the Diploma level.  The subject enables students to revise the latest theoretical and clinical concepts in allergic diseases and reflect on their own clinical allergy practice.  Reflection will be promoted through case presentation and reports and literature review.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7001 ORMEDI 7002 ANDMEDI 7003  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7030  Research Project in Rural Generalist Medicine  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401275  This subject is an essential part of the final year of the Masters of Medicine (Rural Generalism). It will build on the students' knowledge and skills gained in prior subjects and the aim of this subject is to design and conduct a research project from an area relevant to their practice of rural generalism. Successful completion of the subject results in the composition of a report, and in an oral presentation, which will include details of the aims, methods, results and conclusions of the project.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7031  Rural and Remote Medicine: The Generalist Approach  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401270  This subject introduces the student to the concepts of rural generalist practice and provides them with an understanding of the complexities and inequalities of providing health care in rural and remote Australian settings. Students will be expected to appraise the current literature around generalist practice and evaluate the models of care and health systems that support a generalist approach. The students will also determine the skills required to effectively deliver the required scope of practiceLevel: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7033  Surgical Pathology 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401229  In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401474 - Surgical Pathology of the Genito-urinary Tract, Salivary Gland and Endocrine System. This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entities in genito-urinary tract, salivary gland and endocrine system pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology I. Two self-directed online learning modules with digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the above sub-specialties will be provided. The basic concepts in surgical, cyto- and small biopsy pathology, including the appropriate ancillary techniques in the diagnosis, prognostication and treatment prediction will be assessed. This subject is designed to further develop the basic research and communication skills, and critical thinking acquired in Surgical Pathology I, and to reinforce the resources and technical requirements needed to reach the correct pathological diagnosis.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7034  Surgical Pathology 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401230  In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401475 - Surgical Pathology of Skin, Bone and Soft Tissue. This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entity in skin and soft tissue pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology I. The first self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of these sub-specialties. The second online module will revise prior learning of the sub-specialities neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology. A literature review and discussion of contemporary and emerging developments in the relevant pathological entity will be conducted. This subject is designed to not only re-inforce/revise the above topics, but to harness effective communication and analytical research skills and to understand the importance of professional development.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7035  Surgical Pathology 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401231  In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401476 - General Surgical Pathology and Gastrointestinal Pathology. This subject introduces diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological and haemato-pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the gastrointestinal tract and liver.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7036  Surgical Pathology 5  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401233  In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401478 - Surgical Pathology of the Head and Neck, Haematopatholgy and Paediatric Pathology. This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entities in haematopathology, head and neck, and paediatric pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology IV. Two self-directed online learning modules with digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the above sub-specialties will be provided. Upon completion of the subject students will have advanced knowledge in surgical, cyto- and small biopsy pathology, including appropriate ancillary techniques and recent research developments. This subject will promote behaviours that create a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by pathologists.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7037  Surgical Pathology 6  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401234  In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401479 - Surgical Pathology of the Female Genital Tract. This subject will revise the diagnostic entities in gynaecological pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology IV. The first self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of gynaecological pathology. A second online module will revise the sub-specialities covered in Surgical Pathology I through V. Students will be required to complete a literature review of contemporary and emerging developments in a relevant pathological entity. This subject is designed to revise all areas of surgical pathology within the Master of Pathology as well as promote engagement with professional development activities relevant to a career as a pathologist.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7038  Telehealth and Rural Communities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401274  This subject will examine the main clinical, technical and contextual aspects of telehealth relevant to the practice in rural and remote communities. Students will appraise the literature and evidence-based resources regarding e-health to promote best practice in rural generalism and formulate an implementation plan for the introduction or expansion of telehealth services in their practice. They will also develop skills that will enable them to conduct a safe, effective and culturally appropriate telehealth consultationLevel: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7039  Clinical Practice in Diabetes 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401284  This subject introduces students to the aetiology, pathophysiology and clinical picture of the various types of diabetes and the short and long term physical impact on individuals. This is  the basis  for all clinical subjects in this course. Students will comprehensively examine the overall management of the different types of diabetes that are fundamental for advance and specialised diabetes clinical practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7040  Clinical Practice in Diabetes 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401286  This subject will focus on the disease process leading to chronic complications of diabetes. Students will examine the screening process, interventions and the management of established microvascular and macrovascular disease associated with diabetes. Students investigate the elderly and vulnerable populations for the synthesis of individualisation of diabetes care and management. Health practitioner clinical skills directly impact on the short and long term health status of people with diabetes. In this online subject, there is a mandatory five day face-to-face clinical workshop component and a mandatory 40 hours of clinical practicum that will be undertaken by all students in this subject.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7039 ANDMEDI 7041  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7041  Diabetes Self-Management Support 1: Individuals  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401285  Supporting individuals to self-manage their diabetes is the central element of advanced diabetes practice. Underpinned by the empowerment approach, students undertaking this subject will learn the necessary knowledge and skills in educating people with diabetes how to best manage their condition and support behaviours and emotional wellbeing that achieves person centred goals. Drawing on educational, psychological, social and behavioural theories students will learn practical skills in communication, psychological assessment, goal setting and problem-solving that will promote self-care for people with prediabetes and diabetes. This subject is only offered in Spring Session.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7042  Diabetes Self-Management Support II: Systems and Organisations  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401287  The increasing number of people with diabetes in Australia and globally is a major public health issue. This subject will explore the increasing burden of diabetes, why some groups of people are more at risk of developing diabetes then others, how society and the way health services are organised and delivered influence the risk of developing diabetes, access to quality health care and individual health outcomes. This subject with examine social determinants related to diabetes, the impact of diabetes on Indigenous Australians, diabetes public policy, workforce capability and the integrated nature of service delivery in reducing prevalence and improving health outcomes for people with diabetes and prediabetes.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7043  Diabetes in Paediatrics, Transition  and Pregnancy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401290  The physical and psychosocial developmental stage and age of the person with diabetes directly impacts on diabetes self-management, diabetes care and quality of life. This specialised subject will explore diabetes in the context of physical, psychological and social development with a focus on children, young adults and pregnant women. Ongoing family, therapeutic and social relationships are central to optimising diabetes management. Family, friends, peers, healthcare providers/organisations role will be examined in the ongoing holistic care and self-management of diabetes and prevention of diabetes complications. Students will evaluate the physiological impact of diabetes, treatment and emerging technology in the management of diabetes such as insulin pump therapy and continuous blood glucose monitoring systems. Accessing and interpreting data for the overall management of diabetes will be undertaken in this subject.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7039 ANDMEDI 7041 ANDMEDI 7040 ANDMEDI 7042  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7044  Diabetes in Primary Care  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401288  Most of the health care provided to people with diabetes is provided by general practice clinicians and multidisciplinary health care professionals in primary care. This subject   will explore the core issues that arise in primary care relating to foundational aspects of care. The subject will comprise of Learning Pods/modules that enable students to choose and learn about areas of practice that are most relevant to their health discipline, context of care and gap in knowledge.   There will be a compulsory Learning Pod/modules on primary prevention, secondary and tertiary  prevention in primary care and the  role of inter-professional  integrated practice. Students will also be able to choose from the following diabetes related Learning Pods such as medication therapy, exercise therapy,  nutrition therapy and podiatry, insulin pumps and continuous glucose monitoring sensors, cardiovascular and renal  health,  aged care in diabetes in primary care.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7045  Diabetes in the Hospital  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401289  People with diabetes are more likely to be admitted to hospital, experience more complications, have longer length of stay and have higher mortality rates compare to people without diabetes. This subject will provide students with the skills and knowledge to optimise metabolic health in the complex care of i- patients with diabetes. The subject will examine the prevalence and economic costs of people with diabetes in hospitals and review current pathological hypotheses on why poor glycaemic control is associated with poorer inpatient health outcomes. Best practice management in inpatient diabetes care, treatment targets and medication intensification for patient in critical, noncritical, peri-operative,  end of life will be analysed  Clinical governance in providing safe quality diabetes care and organisation response will be included in this subject. An online inter-professional case based approached to learning will be the mode of delivery.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7046  Advanced Gynaecological Surgery 1  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401317  This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term). This is a year long core subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery).   This subject aims to allow students to discuss and reflect on a broad range of topics pertaining to Advanced Gynaecological Surgery with an emphasis on minimally invasive techniques.   The pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative management of patients and their conditions are considered with a review of the literature to substantiate and support any conclusions made which may help shape future clinical practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7047  Advanced Gynaecological Surgery 2  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401318  This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term). This is a yearlong core subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program. The student is expected to attain a comprehensive understanding and knowledge of the procedures performed in the management of Gynaecological Disorders where surgery is indicated. The ultimate aim is to become a competent surgeon in this field.  This subject aims to build upon the knowledge gained from Advanced Gynaecological Surgery 1 to allow students to further discuss and reflect on a broad range of topics pertaining to Advanced Gynaecological Surgery with an emphasis on minimally invasive techniques.  The theoretical aspects of teaching surgery is an important aspect in the development of competent surgeons. A review of teaching techniques, including simulation is an area to be evaluated, appraised and developed.   The pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative management of patients and their conditions are considered with a critical review of the literature to substantiate and support any conclusions made which may help shape future clinical practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7046  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7050  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7048  Advanced Imaging Research Project  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401330  In 2021 this subject replaced by 401467 - Medical Research Project (PG). This subject is an essential part of the final year of the Masters of Advanced Imaging (MRI). It will consolidate and build on the students' knowledge and skills gained in prior subjects. Students will design and conduct a research project from an area of inqury relevant to Adavnced Imaging - MRI. Successful completion of the subject results in the composition of a report, and in an oral presentationwhich will include details of the aims, methods, results and conclusions of the project.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7049  Advanced MR Theory  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401324  This subject provides students with a detailed understanding of "MR Accessories, Image Quality and Contrast Media" employed in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) technology and the relationship between magnet and coil, the utilisation of the different channels for image formation and pixilation, as well as exploring the role contrast media plays in enhancing body organs. Students will have an in-depth understanding of interactive effects of scanning parameters on the image quality and how to prevent the formation of artefacts and reduce Specific Absorption Rate to improve image quality, reduce artefact and reduce heat generation, and to prevent harm of burns to the patient.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7057 MRI Physics  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7050  Advanced Practice in Gynaecological Surgery  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401314  This is a 10 credit point year-long core subject taken over two terms (5 credit point in each term) in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program. Students undertaking this subject are expected to apply advanced knowledge and skills in clinical settings in a safe and effective manner. There is a strong emphasis in reflecting and reviewing surgical cases based on clinical experience the student has gained at surgery. A review of the relevant medical literature and what changes are envisaged when performing this procedure into the future.   This subject provides students with the opportunity to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects relating to pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative gynaecological surgery and provide an evidence based approach. Ultimately, the aim is to improve the student's surgical skills and patient outcomes.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7046  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7047  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7051  Evidence Based Imaging and Clinical Pathways  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401321  Evidence based imaging is a foundation tool that ensures patients are referred to pertinent modalities for tests of high sensitivity and specificity while fostering a cognisance to the harm of investigations such as  the low sensitivity of certain modalities to certain investigations, radiation effects and the societal costs of the health budget. This core subject will enable health professionals with an understanding of the best evidence based diagnostic algorithm "pathway" for the different clinical presentations. In conjunction with the radiobiology subject, this will also equip clinicians with the knowledge to better evaluate the risk versus benefit for any examination requested.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7059  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7052  MR Angiography and Cardiac  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401329  The MR Angiography (MRA) and MR Cardiac (MRC) Imaging unit is a core unit in the course of Advanced Imaging (MRI). The subject provides students with in-depth knowledge of cardiac anatomy, the vascular system, and the relevant protocols to create MRI sequences for the anatomical regions of MRC and MRA in different clinical examinations. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating the MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. The subject is offered to students who completed the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Imaging (MRI) 4768, with a varied pathway for the clinical component relevant to their undergraduate discipline. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7055 MR Neurology - Head Neck and Spinal ImagingMEDI 7054 MR Musculoskeletal ImagingMEDI 7053 MR Body and Pelvis Imaging  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7053  MR Body and Pelvis Imaging  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401327  MR Body and Pelvis Imaging is a core subject in the course of Advanced Imaging (MRI). The subject provides students with in-depth knowledge of Body and Pelvis anatomy and the relevant protocols to create Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) sequences for the anatomical regions in the Thoracic, Abdominal and Pelvic Region for different clinical examinations. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating the MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. The subject is offered to all eligible students with a varied pathway for the two weeks clinical component relevant to their undergraduate discipline. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7051 ANDMEDI 7049  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7054  MR Musculoskeletal Imaging (MSK)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401326  MR Musculoskeletal MSK Imaging is a core subject in the course of Advanced Imaging (MRI). The subject provides students with in-depth knowledge of MSK anatomy and the relevant protocols to create Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) sequences for MSK anatomical regions such as the knee, ankle and hip as well as the spine for different clinical examinations. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. The subject is offered to all eligible students with a varied pathway for the two weeks clinical component relevant to their undergraduate discipline. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7051 ANDMEDI 7049  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7055  MR Neurology - Head, Neck and Spinal Imaging  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401325  MR Neurology Head, Neck and Spinal Imaging is a core unit in the course of Advanced Imaging (MRI). The unit provides students with in-depth knowledge of neuro-anatomy and the relevant protocols to create Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) sequences for the anatomical regions in the Head, Neck and Spinal Region for different clinical examinations. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. The subject is offered to all eligible students with a varied pathway for the two weeks clinical component relevant to their undergraduate discipline. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7051 Evidence Based Imaging and Clinical PathwaysMEDI 7057 MRI Physics  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7056  MR Screening  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401328  MR Screening is a core subject in the course of Advanced Imaging. Magnetic Resonance (MR) Screening tests are essential to categorise patients' conditions for faster and reliable patient management. In a real clinical environment, less than 10 per cent of MR Screening patients will need to go for a full Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) examination. This subject will provide students with a detailed understanding of the rationale and principles of setting up MR Screening protocols. It will demonstrate the determinant criteria for the setup of the screening protocols in collaboration with the referring clinical team. Students will learn to create research programs to validate the effectiveness of the screening protocols. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating the MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site under the supervision of a WSU MRI clinician.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7055 MR Neurology - Head Neck and Spinal ImagingMEDI 7054 MR Musculoskeletal ImagingMEDI 7053 MR Body and Pelvis Imaging  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7057  MRI Physics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401323  This subject provides the students with a detailed understanding of the design of the different Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Scanners. Differences in Electromagnets and Superconducting magnets; production of the magnetic field; radiofrequency (RF) energy; the physics behind pulse sequence absorption of RF Energy and MR Property of Protons are explored. This subject briefly explains their application and how they interrelate with essential accessories such as coils to form an image. The subject also explores the various forms of image contrast that can be obtained using MRI, along with various basic and intermediate MRI pulse sequences and image reconstruction techniques. Students will learn the factors that may cause artefact formation, image quality concerns, and an understanding of the noise producing factors. It also focuses on the safety requirements, and the serious consequences if proper safety procedures are not implemented and followed.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7058  Multi-sectional and 3D Human Anatomy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401320  This subject includes detailed 3D high resolution multi-sectional anatomy of the human body. Learning human anatomy in a 3D high resolution platform will enable students to conceptualise biological organs in 3D. Students will develop the ability to differentiate between normal and abnormal anatomy as well as understanding the demographics of pathological lesions in their daily clinical works.  Delivered online, students will have opportunities to interact with medical imaging specialists as well as other subspecialists, such as surgeons, neurologists, and Emergency Specialists.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7059  Radiobiology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401322  This subject provides a specialised study of the Characteristics and Properties of Radiation Chemistry, Structure of Matter, Chemical Behaviour, Ionisation and Excitation, as well as in-depth study of the effects of exposure to ionising radiation on biological systems from the cellular level to systemic effects. The topics of the subject will be focused on the biological response to irradiation which will be considered from the perspective of susceptibility versus resistance for the purposes of radiation protection in medical, occupational and environmental exposures to radioactivity. There will be specialist lectures by radiobiology and/or radiotherapy experts during the subject.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Co-requisite(s): MEDI 7058  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7060  Adnexal Surgery  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401319  This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   The performance of Adnexal Surgery and the ability to avoid complications is paramount in order to produce a safe environment for the patient. The ability to diagnose and successfully manage complications, should they occur, is a necessary part of every surgeon's makeup. The preoperative assessment of adnexal masses is to be considered, with data provided to help avoid the inadvertent operation on malignant lesions by the generalist.  This subject will allow the student to explore various aspects of adnexal surgery and review evidence in the literature to support any conclusions made by the student.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7046  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7018  Laparoscopic Adnexal Surgery  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7061  Hysterectomy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401315  This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   Students undertaking this subject will be expected to explore aspects of hysterectomy through various approaches in different clinical and pathological settings. This subject will enhance their ability to develop a foundation for improving their skills and achieving competency at hysterectomy, particularly utilising minimally invasive techniques.   This subject will allow students to explore the rationale behind decisions to perform a hysterectomy, the nuances of surgical techniques used in a safe manner. It will allow an appreciation of the pre-operative and post-operative issues to ensure optimal patient outcomes.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7046  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7019  Laparoscopic Hysterectomy  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7062  Pelvic Floor Surgery  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401316  This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   This subject provides the student with in depth knowledge of procedures to treat pelvic floor disorders. The performance of Pelvic Floor Surgery and the ability to avoid complications is paramount in order to produce a safe environment for the patient.   This subject will allow the student to explore and critically  appraise various aspects of Pelvic Floor Surgery and utilise the evidence in the literature to support any conclusions made.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7046  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7024  Pelvic Floor Function and Dysfunction  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7063  Applied Clinical Sciences 2  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401279  This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Applied Clinical Sciences 2 covers the second clinical year of the Doctor of Medicine. Students apply and extend on clinical knowledge and skills learned in previous subjects. Students engage in clinical and community placements to develop professional competencies. Placements may be held in hospitals and community-based service organisations in the Greater Western Sydney area, or as rural placements in Bathurst or Lismore.  Students enrolled in this subject must complete each of the subject's theoretical modules and each compulsory attachment module which corresponds with the student's allocated placement site rotations. Students will also continue to work through the MD Scholarly Project.   Note: The professional practice students undertake in this subject is a minimum of 1225 hours (subject to location- based placement availability)  Travel and accommodation - Students are required to arrange and pay for their own travel, accommodation and living expenses for the duration of the placement.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 3006  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 4001 - Integrated Clinical Sciences 2MEDI 7006 - Applied Clinical Sciences 2MEDI 7027 - Professional Portfolio 4  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7064  Applied Clinical Sciences 3  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401280  During Applied Clinical Sciences 3 students will complete clinical attachments from the pool of clinical rotations (General Medicine 2 or 3, Surgery 2 or 3, General Practice, Aboriginal Health, Critical Care, Paediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Mental Health and Oncology) which they did not undertake during enrolment in subject 401279 'Applied Clinical Science 2'. Placements may be held across a range of hospitals and community- based services and organisations in Greater Western Sydney, Bathurst or Lismore. The learning and assessment requirements of each rotation are consistent across training sites.   This learning is underpinned by the theoretical modules Professional and Personal Development 3', 'Professional Portfolio 3' and 'Scientific Streams 3'. Students will also prepare for barrier exams and continue their MD Scholarly Project.   Experiential learning is supported by campus, clinical school and online activities designed to prepare students for clinical practice as a graduate doctor.  Note: The professional practice students undertake in this subject is a minimum of 525 hours (subject to location-based placement availability)  Note: Travel and accommodation - Students are required to arrange and pay for their own travel, accommodation and living expenses whilst on clinical placement.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7063  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 4002 - Integrated Clinical Rotations 3MEDI 4001 - Integrated Clinical Rotations 2MEDI 4004 - Integrated Clinical Rotations General  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7065  Medicine in Practice  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401281  This capstone experience subject will engage students in professional practice placement rotations drawn from the integrated fields of General Medicine, Surgery, Critical Care, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People's Health and General Practice. Depending on rotations already taken, and the meeting of minimum clinical training hours requirements of the course, students may have the opportunity for an elective rotation. Students will complete their study in scientific streams, professional and personal development and finalise their Professional Practice Portfolio and MD Scholarly Project.   The professional practice students undertaken in Medicine in Practice is approximately 700 hours. (subject to location based placement availability).  Travel and accommodation - Students are required to arrange and pay for their own travel, accommodation and living expenses whilst on clinical placement.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MEDI 7064  Incompatible Subjects: MEDI 4002 - Integrated Clinical Rotations 3MEDI 4003 - Integrated Clinical Rotations 4MEDI 4004 - Integrated Clinical Rotations General  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7066  Medical Research Project (PG)  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401467  This capstone subject requires students to design and conduct a research-based project in an area of interest or discipline specialty in consultation with the Subject Coordinator and relevant Program Coordinator.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: RADI 7010 - Research Project in Cardiac Sonography MEDI 7048 - Advanced Imaging Research Project NURS 7042 - Research Project in Health Care  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7067  Cytopathology, Small Biopsy and Breast Pathology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401477  This subject introduces diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological and haemato-pathology. The unit provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the breast pathology.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7014 - Cytopathology and Small Biopsy Pathology 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7068  Cytopathology, Small Biopsy and Cardiorespiratory Pathology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401473  This subject uses a blended learning approach to introduce diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities of neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology, skin and soft tissue pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the respiratory and cardiovascular systems.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7013 - Cytopathology and Small Biopsy Pathology 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7069  General Surgical Pathology and Gastrointestinal Pathology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401476  This subject introduces diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological and haemato-pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the gastrointestinal tract and liver.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7035 - Surgical Pathology 4  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7070  General Surgical and Central Nervous System Pathology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401472  This subject uses a blended learning approach to introduce diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities of neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology, skin and soft tissue pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the central nervous system and spinal cord.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7032 - Surgical Pathology 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7071  Surgical Pathology of Skin, Bone and Soft Tissue  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401475  This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entity in skin and soft tissue pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology I. The first self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of these sub-specialties. The second online module will revise prior learning of the sub-specialities neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology. A literature review and discussion of contemporary and emerging developments in the relevant pathological entity will be conducted. This subject is designed to not only re-inforce/revise the above topics, but to harness effective communication and analytical research skills and to understand the importance of professional development.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7034 - Surgical Pathology 3  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7072  Surgical Pathology of the Female Genital Tract  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401479  This subject will revise the diagnostic entities in gynaecological pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology IV. The first self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of gynaecological pathology. A second online module will revise the sub-specialities covered in Surgical Pathology I through V. Students will be required to complete a literature review of contemporary and emerging developments in a relevant pathological entity. This subject is designed to revise all areas of surgical pathology within the Master of Pathology as well as promote engagement with professional development activities relevant to a career as a pathologist.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7037 - Surgical Pathology 6  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7073  Surgical Pathology of the Genito-urinary Uract, Salivary Gland and Endocrine System  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401474  This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entities in genito-urinary tract, salivary gland and endocrine system pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology I. Two self-directed online learning modules with digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the above sub-specialties will be provided. The basic concepts in surgical, cyto- and small biopsy pathology, including the appropriate ancillary techniques in the diagnosis, prognostication and treatment prediction will be assessed. This subject is designed to further develop the basic research and communication skills, and critical thinking acquired in Surgical Pathology I, and to reinforce the resources and technical requirements needed to reach the correct pathological diagnosis.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7033 - Surgical Pathology 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7074  Surgical Pathology of the Head and Neck, Haematopathology and Paediatric Pathology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 401478  This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entities in haematopathology, head and neck, and paediatric pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology IV. Two self-directed online learning modules with digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the above sub-specialties will be provided. Upon completion of the subject students will have advanced knowledge in surgical, cyto- and small biopsy pathology, including appropriate ancillary techniques and recent research developments. This subject will promote behaviours that create a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by pathologists.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7036 - Cytopathology and Small Biopsy Pathology 5  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MEDI 7075  Advanced Imaging Clinical Practice and Research  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two sessions (10 credit points in each session). This year long subject will consist of 560 hours of supervised Clinical MRI Practice within the setting of a MRI Clinical Service. The purpose of Clinical MRI Practice is to apply academically acquired knowledge of MRI Practice to patient care in real time. Students will be supervised by experienced Medical MRI Practitioners to develop skills in operating MRI equipment and MR image interpretation for children and adults. Clinical experiences will include history taking, MR safety check, and MRI Protocol setting, Image interpretation, and performing various MRI examinations and understanding the specific sequences of various clinical conditions. Students will need to participate in online case conference discussions. The program will also include 5 assessment case studies selected from their work during placements, and a Research Paper of 5000 words from a case that requires improvement for existing protocols or the introduction of a new protocol.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MEDI 7048 - Advanced Imaging Research Project  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject