Academic Handbook Current Edition Tourism (TOUR) TOUR 1002  Tourism and Global Trends  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101901  In 2023, this subject replaced by TOUR 1003 - Global Trends in Tourism and Events.
This subject introduces students to the foundational knowledge and skills required for tourism study at UWS and professional practice in a range of tourism related careers. This subject provides students with opportunities to familiarise themselves with the core concepts and basic theory of tourism management studies. It aims to equip students with an understanding of sustainable tourism, the tourism system, and mega trends of tourism. It covers the global complexity of the tourism industry; of the social, environmental, and political realities; and the role of governments - federal, state and local together with private enterprise in the development of tourism experience, industry practice, and destinations.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 1001 - Tourism Sustainability and Global Trends  Incompatible Subjects: LGYA 1263 - Sustainable Tourism in Practice LGYA 1262 - Managing Tourism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 1003  Global Trends in Tourism and Events  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject introduces students to the foundational knowledge and skills required for tourism, event and heritage studies at WSU and professional practice in a range of related careers. The subject provides students with opportunities to familiarise themselves with the core concepts and basic theory of tourism, event, and heritage studies. It aims to equip students with an understanding of sustainable industry and community, the tourism system, and mega trends in tourism and event management. It covers the global complexity of tourism and event management; of the social, environmental, and political realities; and the role of governments – federal, state and local together with private enterprise in the development of experience, industry practice, and destinations.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 1002 - Tourism and Global Trends  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 2001  Issues in Contemporary Heritage  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101601  In 2023 this subject is replaced by HUMN 2073 Issues in Contemporary Heritage. The aim of this subject is to get students thinking critically about heritage. To do so, it examines two main questions: "What is heritage?" and "Why does it matter?". While the answers to both may appear fairly straightforward, this subject is designed to make students question and problematise their own assumptions, rethink what is and is not heritage, and consider why, in fact, we even care at all. The subject will introduce concepts such as national identity, ethics, memorialisation, belonging, nostalgia, heritage values, status, control and repatriation. It will also introduce and examine heritage legislation, theory and practice.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 2003  Managing Sustainable Places  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Managing Sustainable Places provides students with a fundamental understanding of current debates in tourism and sustainable place management. The complex relationships and interactions among the diverse stakeholders involved in managing sustainable places and tourism are explored. The subject encourages a systems approach, focusing on managing visitor experiences alongside destination attributes and community development. The subject assists students to analyse the role of tourism, events, and heritage in sustainable places through applying a wide range of case studies.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: SPRT 2011 Sustainability Tourism and Place  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 2004  Tourism and Festivals in Society  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In this subject student’s approach tourism and festivals as cultural and social phenomena. Tourism and festival related industries, visitor behaviour, visitor experience and the impacts of these are examined through a socio-cultural lens. Considering tourism as an agent of social change, and festivals as a key driving force within this, the subject is framed within the interplay between tourism, mobility and globalisation, tourism and development, and tourism and world events. The subject will also unpack some of the common motivations for leisure travel, explore the role of tourism in everyday life, and examine the interconnections between the media, consumer culture, visual culture and the tourist and festival experience.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2057 - Tourism in Society  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 3001  Tourism, Events and Technology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores the ways in which digital technologies are reshaping travel, including travellers’ experiences, and planning and management of the travel industry. Students will learn how digital technologies are being utilised, and the opportunities and challenges these technologies present. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with travel apps, virtual/augmented reality technologies, smart attractions and transport technologies. Students will also learn how to conceptualise and pitch their own digital travel products. Upon completion of the subject, students will be well placed to develop and manage innovative, socially responsible travel and mobility technologies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: BUSM 3079 -  Travel in the Digital Age  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 3002  Cultural Tourism and Events  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject examines the relationship between culture, heritage, tourism and events. It firstly provides an introduction to contemporary issues in heritage, tourism and event management. Secondly, it investigates the phenomenon of cultural tourism – its nature (including places and events), the market, visitors, the issues in planning and management – in the context of heritage and sustainable tourism praxis in Australia (and globally) as well as in the context of local communities.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 3015 - Heritage and Tourism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 3003  Visitor Economy Professional Placement  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The Visitor Economy Professional Placement subject provides students with an opportunity to complete a work placement in the tourism, events, hospitality, visitor economy and/or visitor experience sectors. Students work in a voluntary capacity with an industry host to develop work-ready knowledge, skills and networks. The subject has a strong focus on professional development, with students learning how to apply for professional roles (including developing resumes, expressions of interest and conducting interviews), and develop online profiles, networks, and career goals and plans. On completion of the subject, students will be well placed to apply for positions in the visitor and experience economies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: BUSM 3072 - Tourism Industry Professional Placement  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 3004  Destination Management  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Destination Management provides students with a fundamental understanding of the concepts associated with managing places as destinations.  The subject develops analytical skills that include the coordination of a destination through tourism industry’s sectors, their relationship with each other and the opportunities and challenges they face in the predictable future. An appreciation of the importance of a destination’s unique cultural, natural and economic attributes is developed from the viewpoint of sustainability and through the prism of a destination audit. The nature of competition and gaining competitive advantage is addressed throughout the content.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: BUSM 3007 - Destination Management  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 3005  Tourism Policy and Planning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject provides students with a general understanding of planning theory as it relates to sustainable tourism policy and practice. Students will hear directly from practitioners about the ways in which policy and planning is being deployed to address contemporary tourism issues. The subject will explore various planning techniques, tourism policies, scenario mapping strategies and consider conflict resolution practices. The major assessment develops students’ abilities to identify deficiencies in current policy and to propose policy recommendations.

Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: BUSM 3073 - Tourism Policy and Planning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 3006  Festivals and Events  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores the complexities of planning and managing major festivals and events. Students will gain an appreciation of the benefits festivals and events can provide for communities and visitor economies, as well as the challenges and risks they present. The subject will also cover a variety of other aspects, including: marketing, branding, sustainability, place-making, access, equity and security/policing. Students will be encouraged to attend events and festivals over the course of the semester, and experts will be invited to provide ‘real-world’ case-studies. The major assessment allows students to draw on the knowledge and skills they are developing to propose their own major festival/event.


Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 5001  Sustainable Tourism and Heritage  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores heritage and tourism through the lens of sustainability. It examines how heritage and tourism are impacted by sustainability challenges as well as how heritage and tourism can be undertaken in more sustainable ways. The subject contextualises how heritage and tourism have been used in social, economic and urban development and revitalisation strategies across the globe. It critically investigates how heritage and tourism are unfolding in the Global South, Indigenising and decolonising approaches and contemporary movements towards activism and justice (social, cultural, environmental, restorative). The subject also considers threats to these sectors’ sustainability, including impacts of the Anthropocene.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 7001 - Sustainable Tourism Hospitality and Events  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 5002  Frontiers in Sustainable Tourism Practice and Places  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Tourism is a practice that both reflects and creates the changing, global world. International tourism is a key driver of the human experience of globalisation including the development of global citizenry, the opportunities and obligations that accompany this and the challenges, limitations and sometimes unintended effects of seemingly inconsequential travel choices. The tourism industry is concerned with the ongoing production of novel ways of experiencing the world and draws upon innovation in science and technology as well as imaginaries to accomplish this. This subject will examine how tourism creates and responds to futures in the realms of space, economy, culture and knowledge and how we can assess, evaluate and predict the effects of these.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 7002 - Tourism Hospitality and Event Futures  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 6001  Tourism, Heritage and Events Policy and Governance  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores policy and governance in the tourism, heritage and events sectors. Students will explore current policies, and learn how to critically analyse them, especially in the context of sustainable development. The subject will also explore different governance structures in these sectors, and their influence on policy development and sustainability outcomes. After completing this subject, students will be well placed to take on governance, planning and policy roles to reshape the tourism, heritage and events sectors, both in Australia and internationally.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 6002  Critical Issues for Heritage and Tourism Futures: Assessed Seminars  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In Spring 2024, this subject replaced by TOUR 7006 - Contemporary Issues for Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management. The world in which we live is undergoing rapid change – socially, environmentally, and politically. Responding to such change requires the constant renewal of our knowledge and skills.  This subject explores a range of issues currently facing professionals and researchers working in heritage and tourism management, nationally and internationally. Students who complete this subject are provided an opportunity to deepen their understanding of a chosen issue by preparing and presenting a seminar.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 6003  Sustainable Visitor Economies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In Spring 2024, this subject replaced by TOUR 7003 - Sustainable Visitor Economies. While the intersecting industries and mobilities that comprise the ‘visitor economy’ (e.g. tourism, events, international education, business travel, hospitality, accommodation, transport, etc.) have traditionally been observed individually, there is a growing recognition of the need for holistic approach to planning and managing these diverse sectors. This is especially important for accomplishing sustainability outcomes. In this subject, students will learn about principles and strategies for managing sustainable visitor economies. Industry and government stakeholders will share case-studies detailing their experiences managing visitor economies.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 6004  Data Capture and Creative Communication  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In Spring 2024, this subject replaced by TOUR 7004 - Tourism, Hospitality and Events Insights. This subject provides students with the knowledge and skills to creatively address a range of operational and engagement challenges in the tourism, heritage and visitor economy sectors. Through practical application and class-based theory, students will have the opportunity to learn a variety of data-capture and creative communication techniques, including: safe drone operation, high quality audio-visual recording, video editing, digital mapping, and graphic design for marketing, interpretation and public engagement.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7001  Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Events  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Sustainability has become a major issue in the contemporary visitor economy, including in the tourism, hospitality, events and related sectors. However, stakeholders do not necessarily understand the specific aspects of sustainability which their business has an impact upon or is impacted by. Stakeholders in tourism, hospitality and events are not always familiar with the tools of sustainability assessment and have limited comprehension of how a robust sustainability audit can aid in reducing operational costs improving corporate image and increasing customer patronage. This subject will provide students with an opportunity to undertake a sustainability audit from an environmental, economic and social perspective.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 5001 - Sustainable Tourism and Heritage  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7002  Tourism, Hospitality and Event Futures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Tourism is a practice that both reflects and creates the changing, global world. International tourism is a key driver of the human experience of globalisation including the development of global citizenry, the opportunities and obligations that accompany this and the challenges, limitations and sometimes unintended effects of seemingly inconsequential travel choices. The tourism industry is concerned with the ongoing production of novel ways of experiencing the world and draws upon innovation in science and technology as well as imaginaries to accomplish this. Further, tourism is not insulated from practices that happen within the events and hospitality fields and must be taken into account when considering wholistic and strategic approaches. This subject will examine how these create and respond to futures in the realms of space, economy, culture and knowledge and how we can assess, evaluate and predict the effects of these.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 5002 - Frontiers in Sustainable Tourism Practice and Places  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7003  Sustainable Visitor Economies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  While the intersecting industries and mobilities that comprise the ‘visitor economy’ (e.g. tourism, events, international education, business travel, hospitality, accommodation, transport, etc.) have traditionally been observed individually, there is a growing recognition of the need for holistic approach to planning and managing these diverse sectors. This is especially important for accomplishing sustainability outcomes. In this subject, students will learn about principles and strategies for managing sustainable visitor economies. Industry and government stakeholders will share case-studies detailing their experiences managing visitor economies.
Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 6003 - Sustainable Visitor Economies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7004  Tourism, Hospitality and Events Insights  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject provides students with the knowledge and skills to analyse, interpret, translate, and communicate research insights in the  tourism, hospitality and event management sectors. Through practical application and class-based theory, students will have the opportunity to gain the critical skills required to locate, select, evaluate and analyse relevant qualitative and quantitative data gathered through a variety of data collection techniques. Students will also learn how to interpret, translate and communicate research insights to diverse audience using creative techniques.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 6004 - Data Capture and Creative Communication  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7005  Tourism, Hospitality and Events Policy and Governance  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores policy and governance in the tourism, hospitality  and events sectors. Students will explore current policies, and learn how to critically analyse them, especially in the context of sustainable development. The subject will also explore different governance structures in these sectors, and their influence on policy development and sustainability outcomes. After completing this subject, students will be well placed to take on governance, planning and policy roles to reshape the tourism, hospitality and events sectors, both in Australia and internationally.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 6001 - Tourism Heritage and Events Policy and Governance  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7006  Contemporary Issues for Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management   (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The world in which we live is undergoing rapid change – socially, environmentally, and politically. Responding to such change requires the constant renewal of our knowledge and skills. This subject explores a range of issues currently facing professionals and researchers working in tourism, hospitality and event management, nationally and internationally. Students who complete this subject are provided an opportunity to deepen their understanding of a chosen issue by preparing and presenting a seminar.
Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 6002 - Critical Issues for Heritage and Tourism Futures Assessed Seminars  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 7007  Visitor Economy Professional Placement (Postgraduate)  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The Visitor Economy Professional Placement subject provides students with an opportunity to complete a work placement in the tourism, events, hospitality, visitor economy and/or visitor experience sectors. Students work in a voluntary capacity with an industry host to develop work-ready knowledge, skills and networks. The subject has a strong focus on professional development, with students learning how to apply for professional roles (including developing professional resumes, expressions of interest and conducting interviews), and develop online profiles, networks, and career goals and plans. On completion of the subject, students will be well placed to apply for positions in the visitor and experience economies.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TOUR 9001  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Tourism  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800069  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject