Academic Handbook Current Edition Communication and Media (COMM) COMM 0001  Academic Literacy (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900095  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0002  Academic Skills for Communication (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700218  This subject introduces students to the essential academic skills required for success in tertiary studies. It employs an explicit pedagogy approach to teach students how to become independent, active, and reflective learners. The subject also includes essential research and writing skills specific to the Communication Arts.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0003  Academic Skills for Design (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700221  This subject introduces students to the essential academic skills required for success in tertiary studies. It employs an explicit pedagogy approach to teach students how to become independent, active, and reflective learners. The subject also includes essential research and writing skills specific to the Diploma in Design.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0004  Communication and Media (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700260  Communication and Media introduces students to key terminology, concepts and debates in the fields of Communication and Media Studies. The subject looks at the role of communication in a variety of private, professional and public contexts, developing students' ability to identify, evaluate and adopt effective communication practices. Students will also be introduced to the basic critical vocabulary and tools necessary to analyse media discourse and advertising.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 0005 - Communication and Media (UWSC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0005  Communication and Media (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900026  The globalisation or interdependence caused by changes in economies and communications along with the influence of new forms of communication and mass media has led to the introduction of media and communications courses in secondary and tertiary education programs.    This subject is one which will not only attempt to structure student interest in general communication principles, media, and information technology but also enhance their vocational, interpersonal and academic potential. It is designed to be an introduction to media and communication studies at university.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0008  Developing Academic Language and Literacy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900209  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0009  Grammar Workshop (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900116  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0010  Successful University Writing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900210  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0011  Texts and Communication (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700192  This subject assists students to develop skills in reading and textual analysis. It introduces students to the basic principles of reader response theory and general strategies to improve reading resilience. Textual analysis skills are built through engagement with a diverse range of texts on a variety of themes, which are relevant both to the contemporary world and to later studies at both the Foundation and University level. By the end of this subject, students will be able to read, discuss, analyse and write about texts in ways appropriate to academic levels of study.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 0012 - Texts and Communication (UWSC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0012  Texts and Communication (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900092  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0013  Unistep Academic Literacy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900205  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0014  Graduate Research Literacy (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900122  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 0015  Communication Practices (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700324  What does it mean to be a communication professional in the digital age? In this subject students will explore the various study and career options available to them in communication industries. They will engage with a range of skills and practices to boost their success in later subjects and to start thinking and working like a communication professional. Engaging in a case study of an Australian media professional and developing a professional profile of their own ensures that students can identify and develop their own strengths relevant to their communication journey.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1004  Approaches to Text  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100641  Why do we read books? Reading literary texts is crucial to our ways of understanding the world and ourselves. In this subject students learn that reading resilience, close reading skills and the ability to identify specific literary techniques are foundational to studying literature. Students will read a range of Australian texts including fiction, poetry, short stories, drama and criticism. They will analyse how meanings in those texts are shaped by diverse cultural and international contexts. This subject builds reading capacity while engaging students in key debates about literature today: what it means, how it works, and why it matters.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0130 - Approaches to Text COMM 1005 - Aproaches to Text (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1007  Communication in Health  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 400732  Communication is integral to professional relationships, whether working individually with a client, educating community members on health matters, or working with other professionals as part of a multidisciplinary team. This subject aims to develop written and verbal communication skills in preparation for work within the health professions across these areas. Communication skills will include those needed to form therapeutic relationships with individual clients and groups, as well as those required to communicate health information to clients, groups and the wider community. Students will develop skills to establish appropriate working relationships with professional colleagues.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7034 - Communication for the Helping Professions COMM 1008 - Communication in Health (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1008  Communication in Health (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700062  Communication is integral to professional relationships, whether working individually with a client, educating community members on health matters, or working with other professionals as part of a multidisciplinary team. This subject aims to develop communication skills in preparation for work within the health professions across these areas. Communication skills will include those needed to form therapeutic relationships with individual clients and groups, as well as those required to communicate health information to clients, groups and the wider community. Students will develop skills to establish appropriate working relationships with professional colleagues.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1007 - Communication in Health LGYA 7034 - Communication for the Helping Professions COMM 1043 - CommsHealth(UGCert)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1009  Creative Writing: Practical Skills and Knowledge  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102437  This is the second of two Level 1 foundation subjects in the Creative Writing Major. The subject focuses on developing students into writers by giving them the practical skills and theoretical knowledge needed to become published writers. Students will develop a body of original creative work while reflecting critically upon writing practice. The subject is built around participation in writing workshops, which emphasise improving your work via practical feedback from tutors and peers. Themes covered include writing the personal, writing about place, experimentation, specificity, originality, voice and starting a career in writing. No previous creative writing experience is necessary.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1010  Creative Writing: The Imaginative Life  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102436  What is an imaginative life, and how do we bring it into the practice of creative writing? This is the first of two Level 1 foundation subjects in the Creative Writing Major, in which students can find the right place to begin their own writing journey. They will learn how storytelling in all its forms shapes our imaginative life, and begin to acquire practical skills to develop their writing. The subject involves two-hour workshops taught by experienced and widely published writers from the Writing and Society Research Centre and the school of HCA. No previous creative writing experience is necessary.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1011  Data, Mediation and Power (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700269  Data, Mediation and Power investigates the operation of power in contemporary digital media cultures and economy.  The subject examines the primary role played by data in determining how we live in the world.  This includes how we interact with the world, its people and digital artefacts, in terms of communication and meaning.  The subject focuses on technologies of control and governance related to algorithmic architectures and data economies.  Who benefits from data and mediation and what are the limits and possibilities of data?  Ultimately, this kind of critical analysis invites us to think about what constitutes a just, democratic society and what constitutes an ethical media life.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1023 - Mediated Mobilities COMM 1012 - Data Mediation and Power  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1012  Data, Mediation, Power  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102421  Data, Mediation, Power investigates the operation of power in contemporary digital media cultures and economy. The subject examines the primary role played by data in determining how we live in the world. This includes how we interact with the world, its people and digital artefacts, in terms of communication and meaning. The subject focuses on technologies of control and governance related to algorithmic architectures and data economies. Who benefits from data and mediation and what are the limits and possibilities of data? Ultimately, this kind of critical analysis invites us to think about what constitutes a just, democratic society and what constitutes an ethical media life.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1023 - Mediated Mobilities COMM 1006 - Communication Research COMM 1024 - Mediated Mobilities (WSTC) COMM 1011 - Data Mediation and Power (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1015  Foundations of Media Arts and Production  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101927  In 2021, this subject replaced by subject 102825 - Introduction to Screen Media. This subject explores creative and independent media arts practices across moving image, audio and participatory forms, and introduces students to fundamental principles of sound and screen production. The subject maps theoretical and practical connections between the creation and study of images and sound across media formats through an integrated theory/practice programme focused on the processes through which media artefacts are created. Students learn how to analyse and critically evaluate screen media and also to plan and make simple short works of their own. It introduces students to relevant media arts histories and contexts (with a focus on cinema) in addition to a range of technologies, media practices and production techniques.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0161 - Image Sound  Text COMM 1028 - Screen MediaCOMM 1039 - Introduction to Screen Media COMM 1016 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1018  News and Media Today  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100556  Built on the ideas that we must tell a story about all that we are, and do, this subject introduces students to the fields of news, journalism, and media for a deeper understanding on the impacts of news, where it comes from, and how to spot key elements for compelling stories. Students learn to identify news, research, and write copy for local audiences while understanding the power of the media to reach global audiences. Highlights of the subject include pitching ideas, writing news with speed, accuracy, and to industry standards, for publishing and broadcasting to identified audiences.
Ethical research, editing, and the importance of sources form an integral part of learning.
Understanding the media landscape, the demand and importance of journalistic skills and inquiry across a variety of communication industries, corporate and government sectors allow students to critically consider career choices through the relevance of what they learn about storytelling.
Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0049 - Journalism News Reporting COMM 1019 - Introduction to Journalism (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1019  Introduction to Journalism (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700182  This subject introduces students to the fields of journalism and new media, covering the concepts of news values and news research for target audiences.  It looks at the role of the journalist and the professional skills of news gathering and news writing.  The subject also considers the legal and ethical obstacles and obligations faced by journalists operating in an environment of fast paced communication.  The methodologies underlying professional practice as well as delivering news with speed for multimedia platforms are central to this subject.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year 2 units  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1018 - Introduction to Journalism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1020  Media Cultures and Industries  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101926  This subject introduces students to the concept of media in terms of how it has changed, how it works and its impact on our lives and society. It builds the necessary foundation for further theoretical and practical study and understanding of the media in future years. Its approach brings practice-based research together with experiential learning and theoretical reflection. At the conclusion of this subject students will be able to demonstrate a fundamental critical understanding of the media. In addition, students will have developed their digital literacy through the creation of digital creative works.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0221 - Approaches to Communication COMM 1002 - Approaches to Communication COMM 1021 - Media Cultures and Industries (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1021  Media Cultures and Industries (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700180  This subject introduces students to the concept of media in terms of how it has changed, how it works and its impact on our lives and society. It builds the necessary foundation for further theoretical and practical study and understanding of the media in future years. Its approach brings practice-based research together with experiential learning and theoretical reflection. At the conclusion of this subject students will be able to demonstrate a fundamental critical understanding of the media. In addition, students will have developed their digital literacy through the creation of digital creative works.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1020 - Media Cultures and IndustriesCOMM 1002 - Approaches to CommunicationCOMM 1003 - Approaches to Communication (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1026  Principles of Professional Communication 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100483  The subject provides students with an introductory understanding of a range of communication theories and practices necessary for academic work and professional success.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0278 Written and Oral Presentation 2 LGYB 8920 Business Skills for Professionals LGYB 9625 Professional Skills for Science and Technology COMM 1027 Principles of Professional Communication 1 (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1027  Principles of Professional Communication 1 (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700040  This subject provides students with an introductory understanding of a range of communication theories and practices necessary for academic work and professional success.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1026 - Principles of Professional Communication 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1032  Writing Ecologies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101920  In Autumn 2024, this subject is replaced by COMM 1044 Professional Communication. This subject introduces students to a set of theories and strategies for exploring storytelling in networked environments and the way social and cultural experiences continue to shape and inform the way we read, write and communicate. Grounded in contexts key to Communication Arts practice, the subject explores what it means to be digitally literate, the difference between newer and older storytelling environments, and the way networked technologies have re-shaped contemporary reading/writing practices. Students will complete a range of analytical and creative tasks that aim to build understanding of the dynamic nature of communication while further developing academic research and writing skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0212 - Writing as Communication COMM 1034 - Writing as Communication COMM 1002 - Approaches to Communication COMM 1033 - Writing Ecologies (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1033  Writing Ecologies (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700178  This subject introduces students to a set of theories and strategies for exploring digital literacy and the way social and cultural experiences shape and inform the way we read, write and communicate.  Grounded in contexts key to communication arts practice, the subject explores what it means to be digitally literate, the difference between newer and older reading/writing environments and the way the digital is re-making contemporary reading/writing practices.  Students will complete a range of analytical tasks that aim to build understanding of the dynamic nature of communications while further developing academic research and writing skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year 2 units  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1032 - Writing Ecologies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1036  Introduction to the Creative Industries  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102836  Careers in the Creative Industries are on the rise. They're innovation-led, mobile, global and adaptable. In the short-term success can be a matter of luck but a long-term career requires tactics, talent, and savvy business acumen. In this hands-on subject we'll introduce you to some of the key opportunities in the Creative Industries in fields as diverse as Communication, Media, Music, Design, Writing and associated aspects of Intellectual Property Law and Entrepreneurship. We'll look at the Creative Industries from historical and contemporary perspectives, and hear from industry contributors working in the field right now. You'll be introduced to 'future of work' skillsets, including entrepreneurship, leadership, collaboration and communication capabilities, and you'll learn how to situate your own creative knowledge within them. Available to students from all disciplines, this subject will suit you if you're passionate about taking your creative career to the next level.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1037  Digital Narrative  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102827  Effective storytelling is at the heart of engaging content. In this unit, you'll learn the basic principles of fictional, narrative storytelling used in screen media. Following on from Screen Media Fundamentals, you'll learn more advanced principles of screen media production, including genre, visual storytelling, camera coverage, lighting, visual style, editing, sound design and performance. You'll also develop an awareness of key narrative concepts such as narrative form, structure, conflict and basic scriptwriting techniques. You'll plan and create a short narrative screen media work, which will demonstrate your enhanced storytelling and production skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1041  Incompatible Subjects: COMM 2036 - Screen and Sound Practices 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1038  Digital Narrative (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700327  Effective storytelling is at the heart of engaging content. In this unit, you'll learn the basic principles of fictional, narrative storytelling used in screen media.  Following on from Screen Media Fundamentals, you'll learn more advanced principles of screen media production, including genre, visual storytelling, camera coverage, lighting, visual style, editing, sound design and performance. You'll also develop an awareness of key narrative concepts such as narrative form, structure, conflict and basic scriptwriting techniques. You'll plan and create a short narrative screen media work, which will demonstrate your enhanced storytelling and production skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1042  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2036 - Screen and Sound Practices 2 COMM 1037 - Digital Narrative  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1039  Introduction to Screen Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102825  Welcome to the dynamic and evolving world of Screen Media. In this subject you will learn how to analyse and critically evaluate cinema, from classic Hollywood to Arthouse and Australian films, along with a range of compelling documentary, animation, immersive and interactive content from around the globe. You'll reflect on the impact of technology and the different approaches to creating and producing powerful content. Inspired by best practice, you will have the opportunity to plan and create simple, short works of your own using accessible media.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0161 -  Image Sound and Text COMM 1028 - Screen Media COMM 1015 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production COMM 1016 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production (WSTC) COMM 1040 - Introduction to Screen Media (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1040  Introduction to Screen Media (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700325  Welcome to the dynamic and evolving world of Screen Media. In this subject you will learn how to analyse and critically evaluate cinema, from classic Hollywood to Arthouse and Australian films, along with a range of compelling documentary, animation, immersive and interactive content from around the globe. You'll reflect on the impact of technology and the different approaches to creating and producing powerful content. Inspired by best practice, you will have the opportunity to plan and create simple, short works of your own using accessible media.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1015 -  Foundations of Media Arts and Production COMM 1039 -  Introduction to Screen Media COMM 1016  - Foundations of Media Arts and Production (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1041  Screen Media Fundamentals  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102826  Creating compelling video content requires more than just knowing how to use a camera or edit a video. In this hands-on, practical subject, you will develop an appreciation of different tools and techniques, and enhance your ability to be able to create more powerful moving visuals: from researching and planning ideas, composing and framing compelling images, recording, enhancing sound, and editing. You’ll have the opportunity to create a range of short content using accessible media, and publish your work online. No prior skills required.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2035 - Screen and Sound Practices 1  Incompatible Subjects: -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1042  Screen Media Fundamentals (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700326  Creating compelling video content requires more than just knowing how to use a camera or edit a video. In this hands-on, practical unit, you will develop an appreciation of different tools and techniques, and enhance your ability to be able to create more powerful moving visuals: from researching and planning ideas, composing and framing compelling images, recording, enhancing sound, and editing. You'll have the opportunity to create a range of short content using accessible media, and publish your work online. No prior skills required.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2035  - Screen and Sound Practices 1 COMM 1041 -  Screen Media Fundamentals  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1043  Communication in Health (UG Cert)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 500055  Communication is integral to professional relationships, whether working individually with a client, educating community members on health matters, or working with other professionals as part of a multidisciplinary team. This subject aims to develop written and verbal communication skills in preparation for work within the health professions across these areas. Communication skills will include those needed to form therapeutic relationships with individual clients and groups, as well as those required to communicate health information to clients, groups and the wider community. Students will develop skills to establish appropriate working relationships with professional colleagues.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7034  Communication for the Helping Professions COMM 1008  Communication in Health COMM 1007  Communication in Health  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1044  Professional Communication  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Understanding of the complexities of human communication is an important part of professional practice in all communication and creative industries. In this subject you will explore both theoretical and practical elements of professional communication and how these can be applied to understanding and solving real world communication problems. Subject content provides you with a range of communication contexts necessary for academic work and professional success. It also asks you to learn and practise a variety of professional writing styles and give class presentations with particular attention to how these vary according to the audience, context and medium.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1026 COMM 1032 COMM 1033  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1045  Foundations of the Communication Industry  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In Foundations of the Communication Industry, students will be introduced to some of the key understandings and opportunities across a diverse set of communication disciplines (including Advertising, Journalism, Public Relations, and Screen Media), and how these disciplines intersect, integrate, and relate to each other. This hands-on subject will provide students with a strong understanding of the fundamental principles, theories, and practices that shape the contemporary communication landscape, and what the future holds for this dynamic industry. Students will learn from industry contributors working on the frontlines, and through a combination of theoretical concepts, guest lectures by industry professionals, and practical case studies, they will develop critical thinking, analytical skills, and an appreciation for the ethical considerations behind communication. Available to students from all disciplines, this subject will suit those starting out in their studies of Communication, and those who are seeking to become well-rounded professionals with the capacity to adapt and excel in the current and future contemporary communication landscape.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1040 Introduction to Screen Media (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 1046  Data Dynamics: Influence, Ethics, and Power (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject examines the primary role played by data in determining how we live in the world. This includes how we interact with the world, its people, and digital artefacts, in terms of communication and meaning. The subject focuses on technologies of control and governance related to algorithmic architectures and data economies. Who benefits from data and mediation and what are the limits and possibilities of data? Ultimately, this kind of critical analysis invites us to think about what constitutes a just, democratic society and what constitutes an ethical media life.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1011  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2001  Account and Client Management  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101941  Effectively managing a client or an ‘account’ requires a special combination of skills. In this subject, you’ll learn the basic principles of account management and how to nurture and foster an environment of trust, respect and partnership. Working on an applied project, you’ll explore best practice in ‘hard skills’: understanding clients’ objectives, developing a strategy, managing a project, preparing and holding effective meetings, writing WIPs (work in progress) and contact reports, and working toward specific financial/success metrics. Just as important to your success in client-facing roles are ‘soft skills’. You’ll learn how to be more proactive, overcome procrastination, manage ‘challenging’ personalities, develop a network, adapt to cross-cultural differences, and present well. Both hard and soft skills are critical to the success of your project, your role as client liaison, and importantly, your career.

Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): -  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2044 - Writing for the Professions  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2006  Advertising: Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101034  This subject explores the critical role of Media in Advertising Campaigns. Through research, analysis and strategic thinking, students will develop media plans for clients. This subject covers media planning in depth: choosing different combinations of media to achieve campaign objectives - digital, outdoor, print, social, radio, TV, cinema, ambient; the use of consumer insight in planning, measures of performance, and creativity in planning and buying.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MKTG 1001 ORMKTG 1006  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0738 - Audience Analysis and Media Planning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2009  Cinema and Censorship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102192  Censorship of the arts has long been a contentious issue. This subject examines the cultural contexts and debates surrounding censorship, as well as the institutions, policies, and people that figure prominently in the history of cinema censorship. Censorship discourses reveal shifts in how 'national morality' is constructed, and often display cultural anxieties about changing meanings of gender, sexuality, race, and class. This subject offers an historical survey of film censorship from the 1890s to today, utilising various theoretical approaches (feminist theory, critical race theory, queer theory, and cultural theory), with an emphasis on topics such as obscenity, pornography, violence, and blasphemy.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2011  Communication Strategies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102056  Communication Strategies is a dynamic practice-oriented subject designed to teach students how to interrogate and analyse real clients' products/services, issues and opportunities, markets and audiences, in order to develop effective communication strategies. Through discussion topics and project-based work, students will learn how to design and implement a holistic communications strategy that is relevant for a particular client.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: MKTG 2009 -  Public Relations Tactics COMM 2007 -  Advertising Strategy LGYA 1172 -  Public Relations Strategy  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2014  Editing and Publishing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102435  What makes a good editor? How do editing and publishing work in Australia and the wider market? This subject provides an introduction to basic skills required when editing texts for publication, and a survey of key issues confronting literary publishing in Australia. Skills in editing and an understanding of Australian publishing are valuable assets for students of creative writing. They are also relevant to industry-based work in a range of related fields such as advertising, public relations and journalism. This subject will focus on three areas: the practice of editing, modes of publishing, and the economics of writing and publishing.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2015  Strategic Event Promotion  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101940  This subject introduces understandings about events as forms of public relations typologies and promotional models. These include strategic public relations and management processes, researching the event promotion environment, infrastructure, organisational and event promotion processes and funding. Students will analyse behaviours of event publics, audiences and participants, matching event opportunities with publics, and conceptualising events as service experiences. Students will develop strategies for developing event partnerships, funding and sponsorship relationships. These include managing the development of the event setting/venue, programming and personnel affecting the on-site event experience, and developing appropriate merchandising strategies for events.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3017 - Events Management  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2016  Experimental Writing and Electronic Publication  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100584  Experimental Writing and Electronic Publication is a practical and experiential exploration of modernist writing practices.Students will be introduced to a range of innovative writing techniques designed to stimulate creative thinking and assist in the development of a regular writing practice. Areas of study include: exploration of pre-writing processes; experimental writing genres; power of language; evaluative process; and the development of individual and collaborative techniques for planning and executing writing projects. A primary component of this subject includes working on writing exercises both at home and in class. These exercises will be used to develop the end-of-unit major project.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2017  Feature Writing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102061  This subject takes students beyond event and reactionary reporting towards an understanding of the proactive process of exploration, interpretation and exposure in journalism. Students learn how to find, filter and file information in a dynamic and constantly changing environment. Given a lot more time to explore issues, students learn to add value to information while keeping the story current, to deadline and in the public sphere, while negotiating with the media industry to get their stories out into the public sphere. Students are encouraged to develop their unique writing styles while also focusing on social issues such as trauma, violence, mental health and wellbeing.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1018  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0585 - Journalism Feature Writing COMM 2023 - Magazine Journalism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2019  Interactive Design: Games  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102272  This subject focuses on game design from an interactive design perspective. Approaches utilising current digital technologies for advanced interactive design are explored. Students will design and produce simple games for mobile and/or desktop delivery. The focus of the subject is about the communication and experience design, rather than technical implementation. Interactive game design examples are examined from the context of shifting production languages, convergent technologies and the design professional contexts. This subject includes game development concepts, platforms, goals and genres, player elements, simple story and character development, gameplay, levels, interface, and the game development process. Students will play games, analyse them, and complete a game design with appropriate documentation.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2018 - Interactive Design ll  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2020  Introduction to Film Studies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100964  The subject will introduce students to the key theoretical strands of film studies and key concepts in the analysis of film. The subject will explore techniques of narrative, performance, genre, realism and spectatorship, as well as introducing methods to analyse the use of editing, cinematography and sound. A case study of a key historical film movement or genre will introduce students to the study of cinema in its cultural contexts. The subject will also address the transformations in screen cultures as a result of digital technologies and new media.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2022  Journalism: Research and Investigation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102017  Investigation and research are fundamental to journalism and many other forms of writing. This subject provides students with the skills to dig deeper to uncover information with which they can build stories that have depth and impact. Students will analyse the role and power of investigative journalism within the information media industry.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1018  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0583 - Speciality News Reporting COMM 2021 - Investigative Journalism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2024  Media Law and Ethics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101928  Media Law and Ethics focuses on the media and communication industries of public relations, journalism, advertising and media production, and examines issues including: the legal framework in which these creative communication industries operate, the role of ethics in decision-making in these industries, and the impact of regulation. It considers these issues in relation to their historical and philosophical contexts, and in terms of the contemporary context of digital networked media. This subject provides a foundation for professional practice in the Communication and Creative Industries key programs.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2010 - Communication Law and Ethics  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2026  New Media Contexts (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700084  The convergences and diversifications in the communications media industries of the past two decades have completely altered the environment within which they operate for producers and consumers alike. Issues about digitalisation, convergence, globalisation, the network society and communications media governance require a complete reconceptualisation of the media in order to be able to understand the impact of these changes upon professional practices and consumer habits. This subject will introduce students to international perspectives on issues in the new media contexts, and an appreciation of some of the social and cultural implications.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2025 - New Media Contexts  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2027  News Reporting  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102062  This subject introduces students to news gathering, research, story construction and news writing for delivery over a variety of platforms, from print-based to online, broadcast and social media. It gives students foundation skills which they can then apply in the subsequent electronic and feature subjects.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1018  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0129  - Online Journalism COMM 2028 -  News Reporting for Convergent Media  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2029  Photo Journalism  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100953  Students studying this subject examine the function of photojournalism in the process of newsgathering and production and examine the relationship between images and text and their communicative potential. The subject involves a variety of approaches to photojournalism using monochrome and colour photography and location lighting for social documentary for ultimate use in a range of published forms.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0636 - Photo Journalism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2032  Professional Writing and Editing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101929  Professional communicators require advanced writing and editing skills. This subject explores the nature of writing and preparation of texts for use across different media platforms and in various contexts. In particular, the subject develops skills in editing and re-purposing of writing, and further develops understanding of key writing tools such as voice, emphasis, tone, grammar and punctuation and Plain English for professional purposes. Through in-class workshops and time-restricted editing tasks, students will demonstrate a range of professional writing skills from corporate communications to advanced editing. Through in class presentations, discussions and short written tasks, students will demonstrate an applied understanding of conceptual and theoretical issues related to writing and editing for diverse audiences and applied to a range of current issues.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0221 - Convergence and New Media COMM 2012 - Convergence and New Media COMM 2025 - New Media Contexts COMM 2026 - New Media Contexts (UWSC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2035  Screen and Sound Practices 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102406  This subject introduces students to the principles of screen and sound media production with an emphasis on digital video, new media, and short film drama production. Students develop an awareness of screen language through critical reflection upon classic and contemporary cinemas as well as practical exercises. Through a series of specialised modules and workshops, students develop their knowledge and skills in media production including camera coverage, visual storytelling, genre, narrative, montage, and sound design and editing. The subject is complemented by technical training in camera, sound and editing software.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2034 Screen and Sound Practices  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2036  Screen and Sound Practices 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102407  Following on from Screen and Sound Practices 1, this subject introduces students to more advanced principles of screen and sound media production with an emphasis on digital video, new media, and short film drama production. Students develop a depth of awareness about screen language through critical reflection upon classic and contemporary cinemas as well as practical exercises. Through a series of specialised modules and workshops, students continue to develop their knowledge and skills in media production including camera coverage, visual storytelling, genre, narrative, montage, and sound design and editing. The subject is complemented by further technical training in camera, sound and editing software. Students produce a major creative media project for a video work under 10 minutes duration.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 2035  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2034 - Screen and Sound Practices  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2043  Writing Fiction  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100896  In this subject students explore, critically examine, and write in a range of fictional and essay forms. They critique a wide variety of published fiction in order to enhance their understanding of approaches, possibilities, and techniques, thereby developing a greater capacity to write and critically evaluate their own work. Students create their own fiction in the form of written exercises and assignments, which they will have the opportunity to workshop and present to peers in a supportive and constructive critical environment.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 6562 - Creative Writing LGYB 4536 - Writing Fiction  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2047  Pitch: Podcasting Essentials  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102697  This subject will teach students the fundamentals of podcasting, giving them the expertise needed to produce their own podcast feature. Working with academics and industry experts students will learn research and communication skills for finding, pitching and developing audio stories (backgrounding, writing, interviewing, presentation, critical review) and basic technical skills in sound and editing. This subject will show students how to get the most out of their software and hardware, and how to maximise their distribution channels to reach target audiences. Students will also learn how to recognise and evaluate key legal and ethical issues in research and recording content for publication. There is no need to know any of these things already, or have a story ready to tell; this subject is for all levels of experience and disciplinary backgrounds.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2048  Communicating for Sustainability  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102705  This subject will enable you to become an environmental sustainability leader by building your capacity to be a confident and effective communicator. Environmental sustainability is vital to human wellbeing and planetary health. Effective communication is required to bring about transformation at individual, organisational and societal scales. In this subject you will participate in three modules focused on the key ingredients required for communicating sustainability: strategy, design and storytelling. Weekly learning pods developed by industry and academic leaders are designed to demonstrate what has worked well in practice, across business, government, community and not-for-profit sectors. Assessments provide you with an opportunity to implement the models, concepts and ideas you've learnt during the weekly learning content. This subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2050  Multiliteracies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102739  This subject develops students' skills, knowledge and competencies to address a wide range of literacies across multiple technologies, platforms and contexts, including the digital, written, visual, aural, spatial, gestural, and tactile dimensions of meaning production. In any society there are a range of literacies, and contexts in which those literacies might be deployed. Multiliteracies go beyond the traditional textual models of literacy to describe the rich variety of cognitive and cultural tools we use to make sense of the everyday. Multiliteracy is key to our professional and personal effectiveness as well as to our functioning as individuals and citizens in a world characterised by increasing local diversity and global connectedness.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: INFO 2009  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2051  Animation and Visual Effects  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102828  Explore the art and technology of animation and visual effects as applied to digital screen media production. In this unit, you will be introduced to the principles of animation and compositing and learn how to create effective motion sequences integrated with sound. Working with commercial software, you will explore the unique possibilities of animation and visual effects production and experiment with alternative, creative, narrative storytelling approaches. Develop critical, conceptual and practical skills within the context of animation and visual effects which will then enable you to deliver powerful and compelling visual stories on multiple media platforms.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2008 - Animation and Visual Effects COMM 2031 - Principles of Non-Linear Editing COMM 2042 - Visual Effects VISU 2007 - Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC) COMM 2054 - Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2052  Documentary: Factual Screen Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102830  Documentary is an evolving area that continues to flux and change. Due to developments in media distribution, technological change and convergence, audiences are increasingly engaging with factual content in new and innovative ways. This subject explores both conceptual and production approaches to documentary in various forms. Students are introduced to key documentary histories and modes and examine a range of traditional and evolving practices including animated, online interactive and transmedia documentary outcomes. Students produce a short documentary project and in doing so develop professional skills and approaches to production roles as well as ethical relationships and responsibilities with participants and topics.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1041 - Screen Media Fundamentals  Co-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2053  Narrative: Fictional Screen Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102829  In the 21st Century the nature of storytelling has evolved.  Fictional screen narratives are now delivered across multiple platforms, devices and spaces. At the same time different platforms are strategically used to extend and add new layers to stories while deepening audience interaction and engagement. This subject introduces students to more advanced principles and processes in the production of fictional screen media. Students will learn how to work effectively in collaborative production teams across various key roles in pre-production, production and post-production. Working in teams, students produce a creative cross-platform narrative screen media project.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1037 Digital Narrative  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3020 -  Media Arts Project  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 2054  Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Explore the art and technology of animation and visual effects as applied to digital screen media production. In this unit, you will be introduced to the principles of animation and compositing and learn how to create effective motion sequences integrated with sound. Working with commercial software, you will explore the unique possibilities of animation and visual effects production and experiment with alternative, creative, narrative storytelling approaches. Develop critical, conceptual and practical skills within the context of animation and visual effects which will then enable you to deliver powerful and compelling visual stories on multiple media platforms.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 2031 - Principles of Non-Linear Editing COMM 2008 - Animation and Visual Effects COMM 2042  - Visual Effects COMM 2051 - Animation and Visual Effects VISU 2007 - Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3005  Australian Textual Studies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100849  This subject aims to increase students' knowledge of the scope and variety of Australian writing. It examines a range of Australian texts from a number of contexts, usually organised along historical and/or thematic lines, and considers the role of writing both "high" literature and more popular forms in constructions of Australian culture. Issues of place, gender and race may be foregrounded, and consideration given to how these influence images of Australia. Film and television texts may also be included or emphasised.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0186 - Australian Textual Studies LGYB 4976 - Australian Authors Special Study LGYB 4974 - Australian Literature The City and The Bush  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3006  Cinema and Experience  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101984  Film Studies and Literary Studies share some common theoretical foundations and analytical methods. However, considered in its cultural contexts, the question of how a film is experienced by spectators becomes critical. Films engage spectators in an embodied and affective way. The subject will argue that we cannot understand how a film takes up thematic and cultural questions without exploring the dynamics of spectatorship. This subject will explore some key approaches to film spectatorship and will look at how cinematic techniques shape narrative, genre, character, and thematic and cultural questions into embodied and affective experience.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0027 - Film Genre and Affect LGYA 0256 - Film and Affect  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3008  Communication Research Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101930  This final year subject provides a capstone experience as a bridge into professional work or as a precursor to further research studies. The 'open box' approach invites students to develop a concept for a research report or professional project, undertaking preparatory stages of collective and individual research in an area of interest that has emerged as a result of previous studies. Students will generate project options that draw on historical and contemporary research issues and approaches to guide the development of their own research questions and methods specific to their object of research. A range of methodological approaches will be explored, including practice-based methods, industry observation/shadowing, qualitative interviews, and quantitative digital methods. Students will develop their own reading lists, identify appropriate research methods and conduct some pilot testing and evaluation of findings for their project. Students will also learn how to read and consume academic and scholarly research in order to critique problematic issues in published research reports.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3039 - Visual Thinking COMM 3019 - Media Analysis  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3010  Creative Industries Professional Project or Internship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102433  Creative Industries Professional Project or Internship will allow students to work with Creative Industries practitioners in a 'real world' context. Students will collaborate with an industry partner, applying design thinking to achieve creative solutions within an internship placement or develop their own creative industry project.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3011  Creative TEAMS 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102431  Creative TEAMS 1 will bring students together in interdisciplinary groups to work with Creative Industries practitioners in a 'real world' context. Students will learn how to collaborate to develop an original solution to a "wicked" problem set by the industry partner. Through research and planning, in relation to a set of relevant constraints: such as cultural, social, environmental, site and audience, students will develop a strategy that utilises the appropriate media, message and approach, to address the identified target audience, based on research findings.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3012  Creative TEAMS 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102432  Creative TEAMS 2 will bring students together in interdisciplinary groups to work with Creative Industries practitioners on professional projects. Students will learn how to collaborate to develop original solutions with industry partners. Through research and planning, in relation to a set of relevant constraints: such as cultural, social, environmental, site and audience, students will develop a strategy that utilises the appropriate media, message and approach, to address the identified target audience, based on research findings.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 3011  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3013  Creative Writing Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100859  This subject extends students beyond the writing of individual stories and poems into larger areas of creative writing, such as the discontinuous narrative, the novella, and the cycle of related poems and/or stories.  It involves students in the process of developing a major project from an initial set of ideas, through the stages of drafting to a "finished" product, using workshop techniques, individual interviews and peer critiquing.  It aims to give each student some experience of a relationship with readers (fellow students) and an editor (the tutor).Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3014  Digital Communication  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102518  This subject covers the theory and practice of social/digital media (SDM) for marketing and communication in a variety of business, advertising and public relations agency contexts. It provides an introduction to the areas of strategy, creative writing and media planning for SDM. It examines trends and issues surrounding the usage of SDM and application and development of practical and tactical tools. Case studies and examples are used to demonstrate best practices. Students develop a major project where they demonstrate appropriate and professional usage of SDM strategies and tactics in a marketing communication context.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): MKTG 1001 ORMKTG 1009 ANDCOMM 2011  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3016 - Digital and Social Media Communications  Incompatible Subjects: LGYA 1699 - Digital and Social Media Communication  COMM 3004 - Advertising Digital Media  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3015  Digital Journalism Production  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102057  Digital technologies have revolutionised news delivery. Journalists in every area of the profession now require video, audio, online and print skills to work across multiple platforms and contexts. This subject introduces students to multiplatform digital journalism and the ways in which multiple media can be used to tell stories for a range of contexts.Students develop their own blog site, that is populated using digital devices for working with video, audio and text to engage with a range of social media storytelling modes to extend stories across multiple media contexts. Based on an understanding of ethical and informed journalism practices, students are encouraged to develop their own voice as an independent thinker and writer into the public domain of online publishing.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3036 - Television Journalism COMM 3030 - Radio Journalism  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3018  Internship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101173  This subject provides students with the opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge they are developing during their studies to tasks within a workplace (the host organisation). The subject may involve substantial contact with the public through workplace placements and, for this reason, it is equivalent to a professional placement. The subject is recommended for students in their third year of study (or part time equivalent).Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0737 - Advertising Internship LGYB 0070 - Professional Internship - Public Relations LGYB 0119 - Professional Internship - Journalism LGYB 0074 - Media Co-Productions DESN 3009 Professional Practice Design  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3022  Media Memory  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101931  Media memory is now a critical field of study in journalism, advertising, visual communication and media. The media builds local, national and transnational identities through the representation of the past. Media industries such as advertising rely upon collective memories to design campaigns in order to reach particular audiences. Journalists increasingly 'assemble' stories from digital archives, recombining similar or related events from the past to build stories and features of the present. Individuals increasingly contribute to news events through their own 'witnessing' of events, capturing and sharing material using mobile and social media. This subject addresses these processes by providing a brief history and overview of approaches to thinking about media and memory, in the context of the significance of media convergence and digital memory within contemporary media ecologies. The subject provides students with a series of case studies that approach the memory of particular events, drawing on examples from advertising, public relations, visual communication, animation, film, broadcasting and journalism. Students develop a media research project that engages with the material presented in the subject.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3031 - Researching Media Audiences  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3024  Modernity and Cinema  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101001  This subject will engage with the question of how social and aesthetic issues interact in films by examining specific questions which are related to cinema history. Issues of identity will be used to focus upon the ways in which historical contexts interrelate with artistic practice. The subject will consider the process of creating emotions, the consideration of techniques of production and the manipulation of cinema language, the use of narrative or non-narrative form to convey the sense of reality, (or the unreal, the uncertain).Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1620 - Modernity and Cinema  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3025  News Teams  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102063  This subject introduces students to the concept surrounding the editorial team process and the culture of the newsroom across all news media. It explores the social and organisational context of news production in commercial, public or community news organisations. It draws upon theory from communication, sociology, psychology, and management to provide a broad understanding of the principles and practices of effective and creative news teams. It critically analyses the structures, processes and techniques of news gathering to enable quality team outcomes. The subject encourages collaborative working relationships and develops students' own practice in a team.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3026 -  News Teams and Newsroom Cultures  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3035  TV Production 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102409  In 2023, this subject replaced by 102834 - Screen Media: Capstone Production. Television Production 2 is a practical and vocational subject that provides students with a range of advanced skills for working in the television production and broadcast sector. The course encourages multiplatform conceptualisation and distribution of projects exploring the futures of television in online, mobile and networked environments. Students build on their knowledge and experience from TV Production 1 across a range of roles including project planning, scriptwriting and research, filming, sound recording, video editing, and post production. Working in small teams students develop and produce a TV series with professional production values for broadcast through public media contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 3034  Co-requisite(s): COMM 2036  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3021 - Media Arts Workshop COMM 3038 - Video Project COMM 3033 - TV Production COMM 3050 - Screen Media Capstone Production  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3037  Transmedia Production  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101939  In 2023, this subject replaced by COMM 3049 - Screen Media: Capstone Development. Video is now delivered across multiple platforms and spaces, both online and offline via mobile networks; through festivals, public spaces and galleries and across social network sites. At the same time video productions are increasingly designed to be Transmedia where different platforms are strategically used to extend and add new layers to stories while deepening audience interaction and engagement. Students will learn about 360 degree storytelling as strategic communications. Students will develop a professional transmedia project proposal for a service, product or system that works across multiple platforms, engaging with audiences through social network sites. Students will explore how content can be meaningfully embedded and linked across multiple platforms to engage target audiences.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 3020 ORCOMM 3015 ORDESN 2010 ORCOMM 2018 ORCOMM 2018 ORCOMM 2034 ORCOMM 2042  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 3021 - Media Arts Workshop COMM 3049 - Screen Media Capstone Development  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3041  Writing For Performance  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100895  In this subject students will consider the history and theory of a selection of performance traditions including Greek tragedy, Elizabethan and Jacobean and modern drama and post-modern performance and write scripts for one or a number of media, including screen (film and television), dramatic theatre, performance poetry and song lyrics and contemporary performance.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 4928 - Writing for Performance LGYA 0302 - Writing for Screen and Stage  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3042  Writing Poetry  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101011  What does a poem look or sound like today? In this subject students examine poetic forms, styles and techniques from various cultures of the 20th and 21st centuries. Students are taught to analyse and write poetry via a series of guided workshop exercises. They learn that writing poetry also involves becoming a skilled reader of and about poetry. Students enrich their knowledge and love of poems by scrutinising a range of poetic types and methods including imagism, metaphor, free verse, humour, spoken word traditions, song-writing, ecological poetries, and visual and digital poetries. No previous experience in poetry writing is necessary.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 4537 - Writing Poetry  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3043  Writing Portfolio  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100582  In this level 3 foundation subject of the Creative Writing Major, students are guided by experienced, professional writers in producing an extended portfolio of original creative writing, in a genre (or genres) of their choice. Students will read closely from a wide range of literary texts while completing an intensive program of in-class writing and workshopping activities. They will gain skills in reading and interpreting texts from different genres, eras and contexts - including culturally diverse settings. Students will develop skills in drafting, editing and polishing their own creative work, and in situating their writing within the Australian literary and publishing industries.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3045  Advertising: Campaigns  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102730  In this capstone subject students will learn to professionalise key aspects of the advertising management process. The subject provides the opportunity to link and apply theoretical understanding with research, writing, planning, creative development and media, and presentation skills in response to a live client brief provided by a multi-national advertising agency. The 'real world' situation allows students to demonstrate their capacity for problem analysis and to develop appropriate and timely solutions. Students will  work within an allocated budget and to realistic industry deadlines to produce a campaign they can include in their portfolio. Assessment tasks will enable students to demonstrate emerging professional  capacity and prepare themselves for a communication position, either in an advertising agency, media agency or consultancy.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 2011 ANDCOMM 2006  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1057 -  Advertising Campaigns COMM 3007  - Communication Campaigns  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3046  Personal Branding Strategies: Build and Manage Your Career Profile  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102780  A strong personal brand can open doors to career opportunities, promotions and partnerships in all industries. This subject is essential for anyone who wants to propel their career, build a reputation, capitalise on opportunities and stand out to future employers. Using user-centred theories and approaches, we'll teach you how to create a personal brand aligned to your values and goals in a way that engenders confidence, trust and credibility. You'll learn the skills to network so you can connect with and leverage the influencers who can accelerate your reputation. How to build and showcase your brand, both online and offline, and how to manage it over time. How to craft short talks and presentations (based on the philosophies and techniques of TED), to inspire your audience to action. This subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Incompatible Subjects: COMM 2049 - Personal Branding Strategies Build and Manage Your Career Profile  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3047  Episodic Screen Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102831  In this subject students will analyse and develop an episodic narrative production proposal using concepts and production strategies for serialised narrative storytelling for online platforms.  Students will be introduced to the University’s broadcast television studio and operation. Students will build their knowledge and practical skills in the conceptualisation, planning, editing of serialised online web and streamed digital based narratives. This subject will require students’ attendance in workshops delivered in blocks and participation in studio recording.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 2052 - Documentary Factual Screen Media OR COMM 2053 - Narrative Fictional Screen Media  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3048  Immersive Screen Technologies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102832  New technology developments have facilitated the integration and design of immersive technologies to more fully engage audiences with narratives and brands.  In this subject, students will study user engagement and visual effects theory and analyse the application of these theories and business models on innovative commercial and creative industries case studies. Students will be introduced to using immersive cross platform technologies and 360 filming. Students will develop a scoping and design template for their own project concept. The project proposal will outline the rationale, using visual design elements and compositing requirements, to build a multi-layered digital experience for a venue, project or brand.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3049  Screen Media: Capstone Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102833  In this subject students develop a major screen media project which will be produced in the subject Screen Media Capstone Production. The nature of the project may vary depending on students' interests and career aspirations. Projects may range from documentary, drama, episodic, animation, immersive, transmedia, interactive and other hybrid forms. Depending on the nature the project, projects maybe developed individually or in interdisciplinary groups. Projects may be original creative ideas or undertaken in collaboration with an industry and/or community partner.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 2052 Documentary Factual Screen Media AND COMM 3053 Narrative Fictional Screen Media  Equivalent Subjects: -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3050  Screen Media: Capstone Production  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102834  In this subject students produce projects that were planned and developed in the previous subject, Screen Media: Capstone Development. This subject provides the opportunity for students to consolidate theoretical knowledge and practise-based skills acquired throughout their course to produce a substantial screen media project. Students may choose to take on a leadership role such as producer or director, or students may choose develop their skills targeted to their own area of interest. This may involve a specific production area or crew role which may be undertaken on more than one project. Students will also produce an online portfolio featuring key achievements made throughout the course, for the purpose of enhancing graduate employment prospects.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 3049 - Screen Media Capstone Development  Equivalent Subjects: -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 3052  Writing for our Digital Lives  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The ability to critically consume and strategically create a range of digital media is vital to the health of a democratic, civic society. Through both the practice of writing, and the study of writing as a ‘designed space’, you’ll learn techniques that will help you find your voice as a communicator so you can inspire, compel and inform audiences. You will be provided with opportunities to experiment with and study a number of media platforms as you consider how the digital sphere and its associated technologies are shaping and informing the way we read, write and communicate.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 1044  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7001  Adaptive Leadership, Management and Team Work  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102519  The Creative Industries provide opportunities for innovative and integrative working styles and methods, particularly in SMEs and multi-disciplinary collaborations. This industry-facing subject provides an understanding and application of specified theories and methods of leadership, management and collaboration, with a creative, technological and/or entrepreneurial focus. You will devise an individual, semester-long professional development challenge in leadership, management or collaboration and apply your learnings to problem-solve a current professional situation. A supplementary collaborative group project allows you to apply and customise industry roles, techniques and processes in a strategic response to a client brief. You will investigate and analyse one model of leadership, management or collaboration that is found in the creative industries.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7002  Convergent Media Internship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101426  This professionally oriented subject consists of a work internship placement with a corporate media or community communications division of an organisation. These agencies may include WSU research centres, educational, community and cultural agencies within Sydney and corporate and professional organisations in Australia or off-shore, as agreed. The focus of the internship is to research and contribute to audience/community liaison and development, and/or to contribute to the cross media production and/or marketing plans of the organisation. During the placement students will develop documentation to capture and manage ideas about professional development, industry trends, professional links, case studies and associated documentation. On completion of the placement students will present a comprehensive report.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7003  Foundations of Media Arts Production (PG)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102300  This subject explores creative and independent media arts practices across moving image, audio and participatory forms, and introduces students to fundamental principles of long-form sound and screen production. The subject maps theoretical and practical connections between the creation and study of images and sound across media formats through an integrated theory/practice programme focused on the processes through which long-form media artefacts are created. Students learn how to analyse and critically evaluate screen media and also to plan and make simple short works of their own. It introduces students to relevant media arts histories and contexts (with a focus on cinema) in addition to a range of technologies, media practices and production techniques.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7004  In the Realms of the Sensory: Ecologies of Word, Sound and Image  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102342  This subject develops an awareness of the cultural, aesthetic and sensory contexts in which the communication, design and creative arts are practiced. It examines approaches to creative practice and the role that creativity and experimentation, as well as collaboration and social creativity, play in the research process. Particular attention is paid to visual, aural, and alphabetic technologies, and the form of augmented virtual realities and artefacts they create. Mimicry, novelty and improvisation, critique and speculation, 'handlability' or tacit knowledge are some of the practices and concepts studied. While the subject is designed for students engaged in creative research, it has relevance for those analysing creative works as part of their research.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7006  Media Project Production  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101745  This subject offers an individual, or group of, student(s) the opportunity to develop, produce and evaluate a Media Project developed in the Media Project Proposal Subject. The project production will cover implementation and evaluation issues relevant to media products. The final product is intended to be a significant new media project prototype. Individual students can negotiate the project of their choice, but this should be based on the Media Project Proposal (or equivalent) developed in the Spring Semester, or first half of semester if you are a full time student. A 5,000 word report forms part of the assessment.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): COMM 7007  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1411 - Media Production  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7008  Media Research Project  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102521  This research-focused subject enables students to develop and produce a major work on a convergent media subject and theme, such as: communications and design theories and practices, data visualisation, content creation for convergent media, and digital humanities. The subject will cover methods for designing and implementing an academic or practice-based research project through workshops and exercises. Students may be introduced to techniques for: differentiating appropriate research methodologies; integrating research techniques into the planning and creation of a research project; field research, action research and research-creation; devising a literature review and constructing a logical argument; and critical reading.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7009  Mobile Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101743  The proliferation of the mobile device and the evolution of mobile networks has profoundly changed the social and interpersonal sphere and the global media landscape. This subject combines both theory and practice to engage with Mobile Communications and Society: the cultural, family and interpersonal consequences of mobile communication and its effect on every day life, social cohesion, political and economic activities, social development and change, and Mobile Media: current media production and distribution platforms, practices and trends. This subject includes the production of content for distribution via mobile devices.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7010  New Genres in Research Writing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102662  This subject focuses on new, innovative, interdisciplinary genres of writing arising after the putative end of critique and with the rise of non-representational thought. These new writing practices mix genres and meld theoretical, critical and creative modes. Focusing on fictocriticism, creative nonfiction, documentary fiction and the multi-media essay, we explore the experimental ethos and affective and new materialist methodologies to which these forms lend themselves. Students will develop a body of original creative-critical work in any genre through a series of seminars and writing workshops.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7011  Researching Convergent Media  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101962  The contemporary creative industries landscape is characterised by the breakdown of traditional media silos and the transformation of media production and consumption practices. Media, marketing and creative professionals are now required to understand and connect with their audiences across multiple media platforms and to undertake diverse research deploying many new methodologies. The aim of this subject is to provide students with an historical, geopolitical and theoretical introduction to research in the creative industries. The case studies and topics covered vary from semester to semester and can include data visualisation, digital ethnography, digital games, community media, digital arts, activist networks, social media and cross platform projects. Using current media theory, design theories, and research methodologies, students will select, analyse and contextualise case studies.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1632 - Methods and Case Studies in Convergent Media  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7012  Strategic Communication  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102292  Local and international industry trends show that strategic communication, particularly including agendas of innovation and ethics, are a growing force in the convergent media landscape. This subject introduces students to both the science and art of strategic communication. It is grounded in an advanced understanding of the complexity of human communication processes and driven by a conviction that systematic research and analysis is required to inform strategic communication responses. This subject is based around a series of assessments that require students to address a real-world business challenge or a social issue in ways that take advantage of convergent media environments.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Incompatible Subjects: LGYA 1704 -  Strategic Communication  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7013  Ideate, Develop: Makerspace 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102717  Ideation is at the core of creative industries. This practice-led research subject will teach you how to ideate, develop and pitch a major project, which you can then produce in the Makerspace 2 subject. We will show you how to mobilise your own creative interests, how to identify and research a creative or market challenge, and teach you techniques for generating ideas and innovative solutions-based responses. You'll learn systemic methods and tools for creative ideation across multiple platforms and channels, including UX (user experience), UI (user interactivity), design thinking, IA (information architecture) and UCD (user centred design). We'll also teach you how to pitch your project so it captures the imagination and attention of clients and audiences.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Incompatible Subjects: COMM 7007 - Media Project Proposal  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7014  Innovate: The Entrepreneurial Mindset  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102719  This subject focuses on current trends and issues in innovation and entrepreneurship in the creative industries with a strong focus on small to media enterprises (SME), ventures within existing business and within government. The subject addresses methodologies for innovation, such as design-thinking and futuring; the role and efficacy of public and private incubators; the forms, foundations, qualities and capacity of entrepreneurship and business development strategies; and the role of networking and industry partnerships, with a focus on the capacities of social media to effect change in markets and partnerships, and business development strategies.. The subject covers existing 'new' business models and emerging trends, such as social entrepreneurship and co-working spaces. The subject builds on previous capstone subjects Ideate, Develop: Makerspace 1 and Produce, Generate: Makerspace 2 in introducing further methods for creative ideation with a focus on technology.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Incompatible Subjects: COMM 7005 -  Innovation and Entrepreneurship PG  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 7015  Key Concepts in Communication and Media Research  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Mobile and networked media technologies have massively transformed how we work, learn, interact and play. Given this transformation, media and communication is now a vital area of research in every field and discipline. In this subject, you will be introduced to classic and contemporary media and communication technologies, texts and scholars as you explore historical and still unfolding developments and events. In doing so, you will consider how changes to media technologies, industries and practices impact upon – and are influenced by – people, cultures and economies. As you expand your knowledge of existing scholarship, you will learn how to identify and integrate the concepts, theories, methods and ethical frameworks that are most appropriate for your own thesis project.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 7002 Engaging Discursive Fields  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject COMM 9001  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Communication and Media Studies  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800003  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject