Academic Handbook Current Edition Other Management and Commerce (MGMT) MGMT 1001  Introduction to Property  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200601  Introduction to Property comprises six main topic areas. The first section covers the various professions within the property industry with particular emphasis on the valuation profession. The second section covers land law and legal concepts concerning property. The third section addresses issues in property development controls and planning. The fourth section concentrates on the areas of academic and industry report writing. This section also addresses the areas of academic study, lecture procedures and examination technique. The fifth section covers topics in relation to residential valuation and introduces methodologies for valuing more advanced properties as well as the skills required for collecting data for valuation purposes.  The sixth section introduces students to mathematics required for later valuation units.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1563 - Introduction to Property  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 1002  Principles of Valuation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200602  This subject covers five main topic areas. The first area covers various valuation methods and extends the students' knowledge in relation to industrial property valuation. The second area covers the hypothetical development method of valuation as well as strata valuation principles. The third area introduces the valuation of partial interests and advanced valuation mathematics. The fourth area provides an introduction to statutory valuation, rating and taxing of property. The last area introduces the students to commercial property valuation.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1564 - Principles of Valuation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 2001  Commercial Valuation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200603  This subject provides students with a comprehensive understanding of theory and practice of commercial valuation. All aspects of commercial valuation are covered, including commercial valuation reporting standard of the Australian Property Institute. Knowledge of land use planning, property economics and property investment are applied to commercial valuation in this subject.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1565 - Commercial Valuation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 3001  Property Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200360  Property Project is the integrating capstone subject, which brings together the skills that property students have developed during the course in preparing high quality professional property industry reports. The subject enables students to critically evaluate issues in the property industry to determine and assess potential property industry implications as well as conduct a feasibility study using an appropriate property software.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 3002  Rural Valuation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200605  To provide students with a full understanding of rural land/property valuation procedures and techniques. This includes being aware of those factors, inherent and external, that need to be taken into account when assessing different types of rural property holdings. To be aware of those environmental factors that affect rural land productivity, sustainability and end value.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1567 - Rural Valuation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 3003  Specialised Valuation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200876  The value of special premises constitutes an important segment of valuation practice in Australia.  A number of special valuation considerations arise in the appraisal of this class of premises.  However, the most compelling reason for studying the valuation of special premises is the fact that these classes of property provide an ideal vehicle whereby valuation principles and methods of valuation can be critically evaluated by students.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1566 Valuation of Special Premises MGMT 3005 Valuation of Special Premises  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 3004  Statutory Valuation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200711  This subject covers the area of statutory valuation. It is the prescribed subject for registration as a valuer with the NSW Fair Trading. It is also the prescribed subject for Certified Practicing Valuer (CPV) membership of the Australian Property Institute. Upon completion of this subject, students will demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of the relevant property and related laws, necessary valuation methods and principles required for statutory valuations.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 4819 - Compulsory Acquisition and Litigation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 7003  Financial Management of Projects  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 301194  Projects are always unique and their processes are always subject to elements of uncertainty and change. The skill of project management professionals in securing the best return for their organisation's efforts is thus held in great value. This subject is concerned with financial aspects of project management from both theoretical and practical perspectives. The aim is to explain how financial management tasks are carried out in the context of projects as well as stimulate students' reflection on best practice in project financial management.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 9001  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Management and Commerce  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800206  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject MGMT 9002  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Management and Commerce  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800183  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject