Academic Handbook Current Edition Curriculum and Ed. Studies (CEDS) CEDS 3001  Bridging the Gap: Re-engaging Indigenous Learners  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101756  This subject is available to all undergraduate students who have open electives.  Bridging the Gap: Re-engaging Indigenous Australian Learners will provide students with knowledge and skills to develop teaching strategies that will bridge the education gaps existing for many Indigenous Australian (Indigenous) learners. Students will gain knowledge of quality teaching frameworks to engage all learners and in particular Indigenous learners. The subject will also increase students' awareness of the complexities of the cultural inter-relationships between many Indigenous and non-Indigenous learners. The subject focuses on empowering students to effectively teach: Indigenous Australians; Indigenous studies in consultation with Indigenous communities; and assess as well as evaluate resources for use in teaching Indigenous studies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1019 - Issues in Aboriginal Education  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject CEDS 7001  Education Policy, Practice and Global Knowledge Co-construction  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102160  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject explores the relationship between education and knowledge through reference to questions about the links between education policy practices and global knowledge production. The conceptual framework which provides the focus for this subject explores the dynamic, cyclical relations between the following: conditions of possibility for linking education policy practices and global knowledge production; contexts of negotiation/distance that affect this relationship; the modes of reception and rejection of the impact of linking of the two, and the mechanisms of connection that make this possible.  These core concepts provide a focus for exploring questions about the relationship between ‘education policy practices’ and ‘global knowledge production’ in students’ everyday work-life.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject CEDS 7002  So, You Want to Be an Academic?  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800210  The knowledge labour market is tightening as more academics compete for the limited number of permanent and temporary positions available globally.  Early career researchers must quickly adapt to established systems, increased workloads and sometimes stressful and changing work environments. They may be concerned about job security.  The purpose of this subject is to introduce students to the world of academia, to assist them in developing the knowledge and skills required to thrive as early career researchers, and to establish networks that they can leverage in order to gain employment and be successful in their careers. Through an innovative model built on online activities and workshops, students will develop an understanding of the nature of academic work in Australia and around the world in the 21st century. Each student will partner with a mentor to develop time, project and people management skills, as well as mapping out networks to pursue near to and upon completion of the student's Doctoral (HDR) candidature.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7038 ANDHUMN 7005 ANDHUMN 7026 ANDHUMN 7037  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject CEDS 7003  Research Methods in Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102824  Research Methods in Education provides students with an introduction to educational research methods and data analysis. It enables students to develop their understanding of how research evidence can be used to improve educational practice and policy, and the challenges associated with the use of research evidence in education. The subject will develop students' knowledge and skills to design research instruments and analyse research data. This subject is designed to provide students with foundational research skills for their application to research and professional projects.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject CEDS 9001  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Education Studies  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800119  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject