Academic Handbook Current Edition Studies in Human Society (HUMN) HUMN 0001  Academic Skills for Islamic Studies (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700228  This subject introduces students to the essential academic skills required for success in tertiary studies. It employs an explicit pedagogy approach to teach students how to become independent, active, and reflective learners. The subject also includes essential research and writing skills specific to the Diploma in Islamic Studies.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0002  Academic Skills for Policing (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700235  This subject introduces students to the essential academic skills required for success in tertiary studies. It employs an explicit pedagogy approach to teach students how to become independent, active, and reflective learners. The subject also includes essential research and writing skills specific to the social sciences and policing.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0003  Academic Skills for the Social Sciences (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700233  This subject introduces students to the essential academic skills required for success in tertiary studies. It employs an explicit pedagogy approach to teach students how to become independent, active, and reflective learners. The subject also includes essential research and writing skills specific to the social sciences.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0006  Australian Studies (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700213  Australian Studies aims to inform students of some of the aspects of the historical development of Australia and highlight some of the important physical, social, political and economic issues and events which have helped shape the development of Australia as an independent, modern nation.  The study of issues, events, attitudes and values in the Australian context along with the development of academic skills will assist students in their study of Humanities units at the tertiary level.  In addition, all students, especially international students, should acquire a better appreciation of the environment in which they live and learn to think more critically about issues facing people in the 21st  century.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 0007 - Australian Studies (UWSC)  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 0005 - Australian Studies (UWSC) HUMN 0004 - Australian Contemporary Studies (UWSC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0007  Australian Studies (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900077  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0008  Comparative World Religions (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700229  This subject introduces students to the internally diverse and dynamic nature of religions in the world today. It explores the values and beliefs of religious traditions around the world, their points of difference and similarity. It aims to equip students with an understanding of the way that religions are embedded in culture. The subject provides students with a social science and humanities based vocabulary for discussing theological notions and debating the influence of religion on history, culture and contemporary issues. The subject also provides students with an opportunity to apply academic research and writing skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0009  Cultural Perspectives (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700212  This subject is designed to help students understand why people from diverse cultures and historical periods may think differently, behave differently and have vastly different worldviews.  This subject is designed to help students understand more about themselves, their family and friends and the reasons why people do things in particular ways and believe the things that they do.  It has a strong theoretical base but is also designed to encourage reflection.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 0010 - Cultural Perspectives (UWSC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0017  Key Ideas in Arts and Social Sciences (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900109  This subject explores some of the most influential ideas in the humanities and social sciences, including democracy, imperialism, romantic love and secularisation. The subject traces the origins of these ideas and their manifestation in the world today. The subject will equip students with the ability to identify and evaluate some of the central ideas underpinning public discussion on a range of political and cultural issues today. In addition, it will provide students with a solid foundation of cultural and historical knowledge which is assumed knowledge in many University level subjects.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 0015 - History of Western Thought (UWSCFS) HUMN 0016 - Key Ideas in Arts and Social Sciences (UWSCFS)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0018  Literacy for Tertiary Studies (WSTC)  (5 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900047  The University Foundations Studies Literacy for Tertiary Studies course aims to develop and consolidate some key academic skills which will assist students, especially those with limited exposure to quantitative and analytical study, successfully complete their Foundation Studies and future undergraduate study.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0019  Studies of Society (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 900091  This subject aims to help students develop an understanding and appreciation of Australian society. The subject will provide general information and familiarise students with key structures, events, concepts and terminology used in relation to Australian's modern society.  At the end of this subject, students should have greater knowledge and understanding on Australia's history, governmental and political systems. They will learn about consumer laws, civilian rights and responsibilities as well as the composition of Australia's population and relevant variations and trends.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0020  Understanding Academic Life (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700281  This subject introduces students to the skills needed for success in academic life. It introduces students to a range of topics to facilitate and develop an increased confidence in fundamental academic skills, develop planning and goal setting skills necessary for university. This subject forms a pre-requisite to 700168 Tertiary Study Skills in Criminal and Community Justice, 700174 Tertiary Study Skills in Social Science and 700175 Tertiary Study Skills in Policing.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 0003 - Academic Skills for the Social Sciences JUST 0001 - Academic Skills for Criminal and Community Justice HUMN 0002 - Academic Skills for Policing  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 0021  Understanding the Social Sciences (WSTC Prep)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700234  The subject is designed to introduce students to the scientific basis of the social sciences, its basic research methodologies, and the impact social science has on social policy, social justice, and social change. The subject is also intended to provide students with an understanding of key disciplines that comprise the social sciences in order that students can make an informed choice about majors and sub-majors when they progress to a Bachelor degree. The subject will also provide students with an opportunity to acquire and apply basic research and digital literacy skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1007  Brave New World: Negotiating Social Change in the 21st Century  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101886  The discipline of Sociology has witnessed a transformation reflecting significant changes in society and social life. This subject re-examines the sociological dimensions of a variety of social concerns, for example: environmental issues, global migration, health, religion, indigeneity, gender, ethnic conflict and sub-cultural groups and asks: In the 'brave new world' of contemporary society we need to re-evaluate the conventional sociological concern of social structure and inequality in the face of these broad social changes. This subject will examine the social transformations which characterise contemporary social life; in particular the pace of social change and the implications of social media. In exploring these social concerns the links are drawn between more recent theoretical constructs and the more traditional focus on national social structures and inequalities. The subject will place special emphasis on concepts such as risk, individualism and uncertainty.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1008  Cities: Introduction to Urban Studies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101589  This subject is a keystone in the Geography and Urban Studies major. It aims to introduce students to the major urban challenges that will shape our society in the future and to the major substantive concerns in the field of urban management and planning It will develop students' understanding of how their own urban experiences are shaped by broader historical, cultural, economic, and social forces, and will  enable students to compare the Australian urban context and issues with those in other world regions.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1336 - The Urban Context  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1010  Contemporary Society (Advanced)  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101516  Contemporary Society introduces students to central issues in social analysis and a range of perspectives that have been used to understand the social world. It provides them with a theoretical grounding in the central concepts and methods of social theory through an encounter with problems raised when social theory directly engages with practical problems such as racism, environmentalism and inequality.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1013  Contextualising Indigenous Australia (Day Mode)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101751  This subject will provide a comprehensive overview of Indigenous Australian cultures, histories and identities. The scope of the subject spans pre-colonisation to the twenty-first century across Australia and all relevant fields of study. A cross-section of institutional, community and popular culture contexts will be explored through flipped mode of delivery supported by face to face tutorials. This body of knowledge will provide a context for various professions and discussions. Students will have the exciting opportunity to hear from a diverse range of Indigenous educators from academics to artists through to performers and community elders. A broad understanding of Indigenous Australia will position students to be advocates for change in contemporary Australia.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 6068 - Indigenous Australia Back to the Future  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1015  Development and Sustainability  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101572  The subject introduces the basic concepts relating to sustainability and development, and explores their relevance to real-world situations at the local, national, and global levels. The causes of unsustainability as well as their short-term and long-term effects on society and the environment will be evaluated. Students will analyse, using appropriate sustainability indicators and social change theories, a social change initiative (i.e., program, project, policy) designed to integrate the socio-economic, cultural and environmental dimensions of sustainability within the context of a specific developmental focus (e.g. poverty alleviation, gender equality, human/social development, heritage conservation, biodiversity, tourism, green accounting, sustainable livelihoods). Students will engage in problem-based learning skills in order to critically analyse and discuss current issues in development, and provide solutions to sustainability.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1016  Different Ways of Being in the World: Introduction to Social Anthropology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102344  The key and foundational focus of Social Anthropology is the relationship between people and their cultures. This subject provides an introduction to key concepts, methods and theories of classical and contemporary Social Anthropology. It will guide the students to an informed and critical understanding of the nature and extent of human diversity and differences, as well as the similarities which unite us as people.  The subject has two parts. The first part introduces students to the history and scope of Social Anthropology through selected work of some classical anthropologists, introducing key concepts and conceptual frameworks. The second part is designed around selected case studies of Indigenous Peoples in Australia, the Asia Pacific, and the Americas, providing the students with critical insight into the application of anthropological theory and the epistemological contribution of the discipline of Social Anthropology.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1017  Everyday Life  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100897  This subject introduces students to key themes and issues in the study of everyday life.  It draws on different disciplinary areas - especially anthropology, sociology and cultural studies - and different theoretical and methodological perspectives to examine the ways cultural practices and meanings are used to shape human identities and societies in everyday life.  It will focus on rituals and routines in the different spaces of everyday life, and the ways these contribute to the production of local worlds and the key cultural categories that give meaning to these worlds.  It will include a focus on how we research everyday life.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0187 - Introduction to Cultural Studies HUMN 1018 - Everyday Life (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1018  Everyday Life (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700135  In Term 3, 2022 this subject replaced by HUMN 1067 - Introduction to Culture and Society (WSTC). This subject introduces students to key themes and issues in the study of everyday life.  It draws on different disciplinary areas - especially anthropology, sociology and cultural studies - and different theoretical and methodological perspectives to examine the ways cultural practices and meanings are used to shape human identities and societies in everyday life.  It will focus on rituals and routines in the different spaces of everyday life and the ways these contribute to the production of local worlds and the key cultural categories that give meaning to these worlds.  It will include a focus on how we research everyday life.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1017  Everyday Life  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1026  Global Structures, Local Cultures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102345  Globalisation has created a world of convergence and, at the same time, of division. Nations appear now to be less sovereign and more limited, as their political, economic and cultural systems become enmeshed within, and in some instances subordinate to, a world system. Similarly, certain cultural styles, from the choice of footwear to neo-liberal politics, have become part of a global culture. However, while we as citizens are becoming increasingly international, we as humans are looking for meaning in smaller, local, communities. Globalisation has not, it seems, created an homogenous world culture, but rather, a world in which citizens participate in, and identify with, both global and local cultures. This subject traces the emergence of a global society and culture and, through the use of case studies drawn from throughout the world, examines the links between global structures and local cultures.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1024 - Global Structures Local Cultures  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1028  Human Rights, Peace and Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101573  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was written in response to the atrocities of World War II. Since its ratification, the UDHR has been a 'roadmap' for peace, forming the basis for international responses to conflicts, poverty and disadvantage. This subject examines and critiques the concept of human rights. It will be shown how differentials of political and economic power between countries and groups within countries are used to prioritise and preference different rights so as to justify selective humanitarian efforts in the initial phases of peace-making and the policy requirements for peace-building in human social, economic and cultural development.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1033 -  Inequality and Human Rights HUMN 1029 - Human Rights Peace and Development (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1029  Human Rights, Peace and Development (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700158  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was written in response to the atrocities of World War II. Since its ratification, the UDHR has been a "roadmap" for peace, forming the basis for international responses to conflicts, poverty and disadvantage. This subject examines and critiques the concept of human rights. It will be shown how differentials of political and economic power between countries and groups within countries are used to prioritise and preference different rights so as to justify selective humanitarian efforts in the initial phases of peace-making and the policy requirements for peace-building in human social, economic and cultural development.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1033 - Inequality  Human Rights HUMN 1028 - Human Rights Peace and Development  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1039  Modern European History and Politics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102000  This subject introduces students to the major events and ideas that have shaped Europe in the late modern period. There is a strong focus on the dramatic events of the twentieth century following the demise of empire, and the subsequent rise of competing nationalisms and radical politics. The subject is concerned equally with the cultural and social contexts in which these events occurred. Students will study the diverse ways in which historians have approached the history of the twentieth century from the study of high politics to the focus on daily life. Methodological questions that will be addressed include the relative role of individual agency and of structural constraints in explaining historical change. The subject will encourage students to evaluate the period as a whole, drawing on scholarship which engages the modernity - democracy - violence nexus.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1041  People, Place and Social Difference  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102170  This subject focuses on the local experiences of cultural and socio-economic difference. This includes applied social science approaches to inequality, diversity, community, sense of place, and environmental sustainability in the urban setting. There is an emphasis upon spatial literacy for social scientists (fieldwork, mapping, data analysis and place description).Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1337 - Geography of Urban and Regional Development HUMN 1045 - The Geographies of Social Difference (UWSC) HUMN 1044 - The Geographies of Social Difference HUMN 1042 - People Place and Social Difference (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1042  People, Place and Social Difference (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700159  This subject focuses on the local experiences of cultural and socio-economic difference. This includes applied social science approaches to inequality, diversity, community, sense of place, and environmental sustainability in the urban setting. There is an emphasis upon spatial literacy for social scientists (fieldwork, mapping, data analysis and place description).Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1337 - Geography of Urban and Regional Development HUMN 1044 - The Geographies of Social Difference HUMN 1041 - People Place and Social Difference HUMN 1045 - The Geographies of Social Difference  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1048  Understanding Islam and Muslim Societies (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700160  This is an introductory level subject that forms part of the Islamic Studies major. The subject will contribute to the development of sound disciplinary expertise in the academic study of Islam - historical and sociological. The subject will familiarise students with critical approaches to the study of Islam that touch on its origins and development, formation of traditions, social structures and institutions as well as familiarising students with issues regarding Islam in the Western context. The subject will assist students to develop cross-cultural awareness and interaction, communication and interpersonal skills, inventiveness and a capacity for independent thinking and analysis and problem solving skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1047 - Understanding Islam and Muslim Societies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1049  Understanding Visual Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101979  Visual media are a major feature of everyday life in contemporary society. The circulation of images shapes our sense of who we are individually and collectively; how we move through the world; and the possibilities that exist for enacting social change. This subject introduces students to the histories and theories of visual culture, from painting and photography, through cinema and television, to digital media, including social media and user-generated content. Students will gain practical skills in analyzing visual and audiovisual texts as well as a comprehensive understanding of the role of visual culture in the production and maintenance of power relations. These skills are crucial to engaging critically with contemporary culture.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1051  Who do you think you are? (Day Mode)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101762  This subject is available to all Undergraduate students who have open electives.  Who do you think you are? will provide students practice in the analysis of historical documents, family narratives, autobiography, political and social issues around a project that will give a context for their own personal story. Students will develop skills in oral history work, locating and retrieving archival documents and compiling their own 'family tree'.  Students will also develop skills in practising speaking and writing genre appropriate to their own family history. An introduction to the theory of identity and identification will enable students to appreciate the complexities of becoming.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): HUMN 1013  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1052  Australian Politics and Active Citizenship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102738  We live in an increasingly interconnected world where international trade, foreign policy, digital communication and flows of migrants and cultures across borders appear to undermine the importance of national communities. Despite this, everyday life is still profoundly influenced by the decisions which national governments make and the powers they exercise. This subject introduces Australian political institutions, processes and contemporary issues. It traces democracy beyond Parliamentary representation to encompass active citizenship, through which public opinion is formed and expressed. Students will identify key political issues in contemporary Australia, understand how political institutions respond, and develop the skills to contribute to public debates.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1005 - Australia and the World HUMN 1006 - Australia and the World (WSTC) HUMN 1055 - Australian Politics and Active Citizenship (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1053  Diversity, Language and Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102736  The purpose of this subject is to equip students with critical analytical skills to understand and navigate a multicultural and multilingual society, including that of Greater Western Sydney. Students will gain an historicised and sociological understanding of culture as social and power constructs, the impact of colonisation, erasure and revitalisation of Indigenous Australian cultures and languages, and of approaches to diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. They will explore the value of their existing and emerging knowledges in anti-coloniality, social justice and activism to navigate a rapidly changing and unequal global environment. Students will practise their intercultural communication skills in a team setting through interactive learning activities and group work.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1009 - Contemporary Society HUMN 1011 - Contemporary Society (WSTC) HUMN 1056 - Diversity Language and Culture (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1054  When Worlds Collide: European Empires and the World, c.1600-1950  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102768  This subject provides an historical investigation of the interaction between European empires - specifically the British and the Dutch - and the Americas and Asia-Pacific region, from 1600-1950. It examines the combination of domination and cultural negotiation between colonisers and colonised, which included, among other processes, the trans-Atlantic slave trade. It examines both how peoples were managed as imperial subjects, and how they responded to this management. The subject explores both the effect of imperial rule on the colonised, and of empire upon the colonisers. It draws upon historical literature from a variety of sources and perspectives, and from European and Asian history.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1022 - Global History CULT 1014 - The First Globalisation HUMN 1023 - Global History  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1055  Australian Politics and Active Citizenship (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700294  We live in an increasingly interconnected world where international trade, digital communication and flows of migrants and cultures across borders appear to undermine the importance of national communities. Despite this, everyday life is still profoundly influenced by the decisions which national governments make and the powers they exercise. This subject introduces Australian political institutions, processes and contemporary issues. It traces democracy beyond Parliamentary representation to encompass active citizenship, through which public opinion is formed and expressed. Students will identify key political issues in contemporary Australia, understand how political institutions respond, and develop the skills to contribute to public debates.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1005  - Australia and the World HUMN 1006 -  Australia and the World (WSTC) HUMN 1052 -  Australian Politics and Active Citizenship  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1056  Diversity, Language and Culture (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700292  The purpose of this subject is to equip students with skills to understand and navigate a culturally and linguistically diverse society, including that of Greater Western Sydney. Students will gain an historically informed, critical understanding of the meaning of culture, the impact of colonisation, Indigenous Australian cultures, and of approaches to diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. They will explore the value of their existing and emerging skills in bilingualism and cross-cultural communication as tools to navigate a rapidly changing global environment. Students will practice their intercultural communication skills in a team setting through a field trip to a Western Sydney community.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1009  - Contemporary Society HUMN 1011 -  Contemporary Society (WSTC) HUMN 1053 -  Diversity Language and Culture  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1057  Doing Sociology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102787  With a focus on what it is that sociologists 'do' and why, this subject considers how sociology contributes to a better understanding of everyday life.  That is, to the routine engagements, interactions and practices that make up our individual and social worlds.  Where we live, what we consume, how we feel and the meanings we give our work, leisure, environments and relationships will all be analysed with reference to academic and popular content.   Serving as an introduction to the discipline of sociology and its various sub-fields and methods, 'Doing Sociology' places emphasis on how sociological knowledge can be applied.  In this way, the subject provides students with the opportunity to consider what they might do with sociology; how a sociological perspective might help them better understand the social world and contribute in a meaningful way to resolving contemporary social issues.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1058  Indigenous Landscapes  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102805  Indigenous Landscapes aims to explore 'traditional' Indigenous Australian ways of knowing landscape in contemporary, meaningful, and relevant ways. Specifically, the subject acknowledges and values pre-colonial Australian history and land-use practices. Content includes 'traditional' land management practices; cold-burning, protected area management, sustainable land use; cultural heritage and heritage landscapes, Sovereign land rights. This subject also aims to equip students with cultural competency in order to address issues of dispossession and disadvantage brought about by the historical destruction and disruption of ecological integrity.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: BIOS 1020 -  Indigenous Landscape LGYA 6193 -  Indigenous Landscapes  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1059  When Worlds Collide: European Empires and the World, c.1600-1950 (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700299  This subject provides an historical investigation of the interaction between European empires-specifically the British and the Dutch-and the Americas and Asia-Pacific region, from 1600-1950. It examines the combination of domination and cultural negotiation between colonisers and colonised, which included, among other processes, the trans-Atlantic slave trade. It examines both how peoples were managed as imperial subjects, and how they responded to this management. The subject explores both the effect of imperial rule on the colonised, and of empire upon the colonisers. It draws upon historical literature from a variety of sources and perspectives, and from European and Asian history.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 1014 -  The First Globalisation HUMN 1022 - Global History HUMN 1054  - When Worlds Collide European Empires and the World c1600-1950 HUMN 1023  - Global History (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1060  Introduction to Indigenous Australia: Peoples, Places and Philosophies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102815  This subject introduces students to the rich diversity: past, present and future of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in Australia with emphasis placed on the importance of identity, diversity, representation and resilience. You will engage directly with Indigenous sources and learn to critically analyse content from Indigenous Standpoints. Presenting as a challenging and thought-provoking experience of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, places and philosophies, this subject provides a solid theoretical foundation of Indigenous perspectives for the knowledges and professional practices in your chosen field.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 1020 - Working with Communities CULT 1021 - Working with Communities (WSTC) CULT1027 -  Working with Communities (UG Cert) HUMN 1062 - Introduction to Indigenous Australia Peoples Places and Philosophies (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1061  Islam: Past, Present and Future  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102823  This is an introductory level subject that forms part of the Islamic Studies major. The subject will contribute to the development of sound disciplinary expertise in the academic study of Islam - historical, anthropological, and sociological. The subject will familiarise students with critical approaches to the study of Islam that touch on its origins and development, formation of traditions, social structures and institutions, and with issues regarding Islam in the Western context. The subject will aid students in developing cross-cultural awareness and interpersonal communication skills.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1047 - Understanding Islam and Muslim Societies HUMN 1048 - Understanding Islam and Muslim Societies (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1062  Introduction to Indigenous Australia: Peoples, Places and Philosophies (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700320  This subject introduces students to the rich diversity: past, present and future of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in Australia with emphasis placed on the importance of identity, diversity, representation and resilience. You will engage directly with Indigenous sources and learn to critically analyse content from Indigenous Standpoints. Presenting as a challenging and thought-provoking experience of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, places and philosophies, this subject provides a solid theoretical foundation of Indigenous perspectives for the knowledges and professional practices in your chosen field.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 1020 - Working with Communities ANDCULT 1021 -  Working with Communities (WSTC) ANDHUMN 1060 - Introduction to Indigenous Australia Peoples Places and Philosophies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1063  Critical and Systems Thinking  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800242  This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. It enables students to develop high-level critical thinking skills that are essential for life-long career success. Students engage with key theoretical frameworks and concepts in critical and systems thinking using interdisciplinary approaches to enable them to think and act outside the silos of their disciplines. Throughout the subject, students are challenged to consider how they think as opposed to how they think they think (biases and heuristics). A clear understanding of the necessity of systems thinking approaches in leadership paradigms equips students to be the leaders of tomorrow.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1036 - Introduction to Critical Thinking  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1064  Digital Identities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject examines identity in a digitalising society. It asks questions such as: who are we becoming with digital technologies? How are digital experiences shaped by long standing social inequalities? Students learn about identities as the flows of data across formalised systems of governance and commerce, and as the ways we make ourselves in interactions with others in social media spaces. Pressing issues are explored such as online harm, privacy, surveillance, and human rights. Students reflect upon personal and professional digital identities, and reimagine digital technologies and social media for new possibilities of identity, equity and justice.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: BEHV 1009 Living Learning and Working on the Web  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1065  Diversity, Language and Culture (Block)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 500074  The purpose of this subject is to equip students with skills to understand and navigate a culturally and linguistically diverse society, including that of Greater Western Sydney. Students will gain an historically informed, critical understanding of the meaning of culture, the impact of colonisation, Indigenous Australian cultures, and of approaches to diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. They will explore the value of their existing and emerging skills in bilingualism and cross-cultural communication as tools to navigate a rapidly changing global environment. Students will practice their intercultural communication skills in a team setting through a field trip to a Western Sydney community.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1009 - Contemporary Society HUMN 1011 - Contemporary Society HUMN 1053 - Diversity Language and Culture HUMN 1056 - Diversity Language and Culture (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1066  Introduction to Culture and Society  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102913  Introduction to Culture and Society examines the ways culture - as both representation and practice - shapes individual and collective identities. It will focus on the rituals and routines of everyday life, and their connection to our wider social relationships. The subject will also explore inequality both in Australia and globally, the social structures that generate this inequality and the cultural processes by which we mark status and social distinction.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1017 - Everyday LifeHUMN 1018 - Everyday Life (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1067  Introduction to Culture and Society (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Introduction to Culture and Society examines the ways culture, as both representation and practice, shapes individual and collective identities. It will focus on the rituals and routines of everyday life, and their connection to our wider social relationships. The subject will also explore inequality both in Australia and globally, the social structures that generate this inequality and the cultural processes by which we mark status and social distinction.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1017 - Everyday LifeHUMN 1066 - Introduction to Culture and SocietyHUMN 1018 - Everyday Life (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1068  Intersectionality: Identity, Diversity and Difference (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores various relevant theories, narratives and concepts that underpin social scientific scholarship. Students will gain critical insight into ideas such as identity, culture, structures of inequality and difference (e.g. such as gender, race, class, sexuality), and their intersections. With a focus on contemporary social life, the subject provides opportunity for students to consider current social issues and various macro and micro forces impacting social change on a social and spatial level. By exploring a range of key theories and concepts in the social sciences, students will gain knowledge and skills in how to analyse our social world – the world in which they will be working in the future as professionals – and thereby be in a position to more fully comprehend the world around them, its issues, problems, inequalities and injustices that they will be working with. The subject will prepare students with a range of skills relevant to scholarship in the social sciences, such as critical reading, sociological theorisation and analysis, as well as statistical and spatial literacy.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1069  Human Rights and Community Action (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In this subject, students engage with the concepts and philosophy of human rights and explore how these ideas influence the Australian experience within legal, governmental and social service institutions. Students will be challenged to consider if vulnerable groups have their human rights promoted or undermined by current practice and identify a human rights issue to address through a community action plan. Students will gain subject relevant skills linking theory to practice in the process of critical reflection and exercising statistical literacy.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1070  Indigenous Australia: People, Places and Philosophies (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject introduces students to the rich diversity: past, present and future of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in Australia with emphasis placed on the importance of identity, diversity, representation and resilience. You will engage directly with Indigenous sources and learn to critically analyse content from Indigenous standpoints. Presenting as a challenging and thought-provoking experience of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, places and philosophies, this subject provides a solid theoretical foundation of Indigenous perspectives essential for the knowledge and professional practices in your chosen field.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1060HUMN 1062  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1071  Images of Childhood  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject will explore how the meanings we place on children vary across cultures and communities and over time. Students will have the opportunity to examine implicit and explicit images of childhood and to consider how these images inform how we think and engage with children in our everyday lives; the role they play in the institutions that impact children’s lives and in the disciplines that study children. Images will be drawn from a range of contexts and types of media. Students will also have the opportunity create their own representations of children.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1072  The Human Experience: Fundamentals of Arts and Humanities (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  In this subject, you will explore core concepts and approaches of major Arts disciplines: sociology, philosophy, history, and literature, applying critical and creative thinking. You will also develop skills in reading and textual analysis to understand the human experience better. This subject will introduce you to the basic principles of reader-response theory and general strategies to improve reading resilience. Textual analysis skills are built through engagement with a diverse range of texts on a variety of themes, which are relevant to the contemporary world. You will be able to read, discuss, analyse, and communicate about texts in ways appropriate to academic levels of study in Arts and Humanities.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LANG 1030LANG 1032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 1073  Understanding Contemporary Australia (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Contemporary Australian society is dynamic and diverse, influenced by an increasingly interconnected world where international trade, foreign policy, digital communication and flows of migrants and cultures across borders appear to undermine the importance of national communities and identities. Despite this, everyday life is still profoundly influenced by the decisions which national governments make and the powers they exercise. This subject explores Australia’s history, peoples, liberal democratic tradition and contemporary challenges and issues we face as members of the national and global community. You will identify and explore established narratives, connect past developments with present issues and examine specific events within the broader context of world history. You will also develop the skills to further understand broader influences on contemporary Australia and your personal lived experiences.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1052HUMN 1055  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2001  A History of Modern Global Buddhism  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101882  A history of Buddhism and its spread through Asian and more recently to the West, introducing its principal beliefs and practices, the diversity of its manifestations, its political, cultural, and social impact. This subject is a history of this current global religion in its social, cultural and political context.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0084 - Communication and Culture in Asia 2 Performing Asian Cultures and Identities  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 2013 - Buddhism in the Contemporary World  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2011  Ancient Western Culture: Periclean Athens  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100244  The Athens of Pericles is studied from three perspectives: philosophy, politics, and history. The use of reason and rhetoric is examined through the works of some pre-Socratics, Sophists and Socrates. The focus on philosophy and politics will be placed in the context of the history of the city-state and democratic citizenship.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2012  Anthropologies of the Everyday  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102347  In 2021, this subject replaced by 102844 - Society, Culture and Human Diversity.  Although people's lives vary significantly depending on ethnographic context, it is also through everyday practices and rituals that the universality of the human condition becomes most obvious. Close studies of how people create a living and make meaning of their everyday experiences in various contexts can thus provide valuable lessons about cultural difference as well as about what it means to be human, and is consequently a core aspect of anthropological inquiry. In this subject students engage with this overarching theme via ethnographic case studies as well as through inquiries into their own everyday lives.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 1016  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2014  Civil Society in Contemporary China  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101968  This subject is intended to give students an understanding of the social development of the People's Republic of China (PRC). It will engage with some of the key concepts that scholars have utilised to understand social changes. In this vein, the subject will consider China's socio-political transformation from a civil society perspective. It will consider a range of stakeholders - from non-governmental organisations to trade associations - and examine the events that have contributed to the development of China's civil society.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2015  Community and Social Action  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101595  Dismantling oppressive and complex forms of disadvantage and inequality are social justice and human rights issues demanding collective action. Activism is not solely about disruption and disobedience. This subject focuses on local, national and global social movements, the use of digital technologies and differing forms of activism using theories of social change. We identify and reflect on diverse perspectives, challenging normative constructs between individual and structural explanations of inequality and explore tactics and strategies adopted by activists, from the early 20th century through to contemporary campaigns. Students are enabled to take part in meaningful ways as active change agents through design, planning and participation in a social action campaign, thereby building knowledge and skills in community engagement, relationship building and the strategies and methods involved in bringing about positive social change.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1286 - Education for Social Action  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2017  Complex Emergencies and International Guidelines  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102367  In 2023, this subject replaced by HUMN 3116 - Complex Emergencies and International Guidelines. 
Over the last five decades, the world has experienced a significant number of disasters, which have occurred in many different forms including natural (e.g. Tsunami or drought) and human-induced (e.g. wars or ethnic conflicts), leading to an unplanned exponential increase in the number of international non-government organisations. This subject examines the causes and consequences of disasters and the application of international guidelines governing humanitarian responses. It provides an outline of theoretical approaches to the understanding of the political aspects of emergencies and introduces real-life case studies that aim to engage students in critical thinking and improve their knowledge of the core humanitarian standard on quality and accountability; the humanitarian charter and minimum standards; and the challenges related to interagency coordination in emergenciesLevel: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2018  Cultural and Social Geographies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101590  Examines the nexus between society, culture and place. Considers contemporary social and cultural planning issues including: local community relations, place management, place redefinitions, ethnic concentration, cultural precincts, and the spatial politics of gender and sexuality. The roles of cultural products in carrying spatial information and reinforcing identity are examined. Introduction to cultural and social geography, and developments in cognate fields of cultural studies and anthropology. Key theories of identity. Case studies range across ethnicity, religion, age, gender, sexuality, class and nationalism. The analysis and assessment advances an appreciation of social and cultural difference and social justice.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2019 - Cultural and Social Geographies (UWSC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2020  Digital Humanities and Research Methods (UG)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102425  This subject investigates the methodological possibilities of digital technologies for interdisciplinary humanities and social sciences research. It covers several major digital research methods, exploring previous applications and examining their orientations and implications. Digital research methods and applications may include digitisation, online curation, visualisation, network analysis, geographical information systems, data mining and simulation. In the context of these, the subject will probe histories of technology and knowledge production, the evolution of digital texts and practices, and issues in contemporary culture such as digital design, gamification, virtual identity, and digital rights.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2021  Doing Business in China  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101857  This subject is primarily aimed at acquainting undergraduate students with the academic theory and debates surrounding China's business etiquette and its globalizing economy.  Drawing on a wide range of English-language studies, subject lectures will cover in broad strokes the historic background of the economic reforms carried out in China over the last three decades, as well as their societal implications. They will discuss, for example, the evolution of corporate law and property rights in the PRC since 1949, and the underlying differences and interdependence between the Chinese and Australian economies.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2022  Emergency Field Operations:  Supply Management and Logistics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102368  In 2023, this subject replaced by HUMN 3119 - Emergency Field Operations Supply Management and Logistics. 
This subject will equip students with the required skills to assess organisational capacity to respond to disasters and other complex humanitarian emergencies. The subject will cover logistical frameworks and tools for planning, the sustainable deployment of goods and services, and monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of local and global supply chains.  It will discuss the challenges, ethical, and political dimensions of supply chains and contingency plans in emergency and disaster response contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Co-requisite(s): HUMN 2017  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2024  Ethnographies of Southeast Asia and the Pacific  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102346  This subject will introduce students to ethnographic field study through a close examination of the anthropology of two regions with which Australia is  geographically and politically aligned; the Pacific Islands and South-east Asia. Drawing upon classic and contemporary ethnography the subject will provide opportunities for comparative and trans-historical studies of how cultures in these regions have been constructed and changed in relation to larger global dynamics. It will also provide an insight into the ways in which anthropological theory is developed in the context of attempts to explain and interpret cultural difference. Key topics of study, explored through case studies, will include the colonial experience, traditions and modernities, nations and nationalism, transnationalism, religion, social conflict, and material cultures. The subject will include ethnographic films.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2025  Families and Intimate Life  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102143  This subject will critically examine sociological perspectives on families and intimate life, building on the approaches and theories introduced in the first year of Sociology studies. The familiarity of families and intimate relationships will be thrown into question. Students will be asked to examine their beliefs, unpack myths of the 'naturalness' of family, and question the 'personal'. Families and intimate relationships will be viewed as part of the wider social structure, their constitutions shaped by culture, economies, social policy, technology and globalisation. The subject will demonstrate the historical and cultural specificity of the nuclear family and its role in the creation and reproduction of social inequality and social difference.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2052 - Sociology of the Family HUMN 2016 - Comparative Studies of Families and Kinship  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2027  Health, Illness and Biomedicine: A Sociological Perspective  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101610  The Sociology of Medicine and Health Care starts from the basic premise that illness and health are social as well as biological processes.  Traditional areas of the discipline are explored and in each case their applicability to public health is stressed.  At the same time, an important goal is to suggest how that field is being redefined and reinvigorated by social and cultural studies of science and technology.  The theoretical perspectives and substantive issues raised and developed to study them are critically examined.  The provision and organisation of health care are examined with emphasis on the social and political context in which public health is pursued and ill health treated within Australia.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1357 Sociology of Medicine and Health Care  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2028  Identity and Belonging  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101612  Identity and belonging are foundational concepts in sociology.  This subject commences with an overview of the ways in which these concepts are understood in the social sciences and how these understandings have been impacted more recently by processes of globalisation.  Through engagement with films, documentaries and academic texts the subject explores different modes and sites of identity and belonging as they circulate on both local and global scales.  Specifically, we will examine topics like gender and sexuality, home and neighbourhood, the nation state and nationality, social class, consumption, work and leisure, ethnicity, youth cultures and new media.  The subject equips students with the concepts and theories necessary for an understanding of social continuity and social change and encourages them to reflect on their own identities and social and cultural positionings.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2030  Islam In the Modern World (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700162  This subject introduces students to Islam and its adherents within contemporary global context.  It looks at key Muslim intellectuals from the 19th Century until the present and examines their attempts to come to terms with modernity as a Western project, while addressing critical issues facing Islam.  Areas for consideration include: renewal and reform; the impact of colonialism and globalisation on Muslim discourse; independent judgement (ijtihad) versus emulation (taqlid); and issues associated with civil society.  Students will also explore the challenge of shaping a Muslim identity in the modern world - in the context of key Muslim institutions and social movements.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3055 - Islam in the Modern World  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2031  Islam in the Modern World  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102294  This subject introduces students to Islam and its adherents within contemporary global context. It looks at key Muslim intellectuals from the 19th Century till the present and examines their attempts to come to terms with modernity as a Western project while addressing critical issues facing Islam. Areas for consideration include: renewal and reform; the impact of colonialism and globalisation on Muslim discourse; independent judgment (ijtihad) versus emulation (taqlid); and issues associated with civil society. Students will also explore the challenge of shaping a Muslim identity in the modern world in the context of key Muslim institutions and social movements.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2032  Issues in World Development: Rich World, Poor World  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101331  This subject introduces students to the field of international development, where the divide between the rich world and poor world takes a centre stage. While development has created prosperity around the world, it is not without discontents. Social and economic inequality at the global level is a real problem and has been increasing. The 'developed' and 'developing' world paradigm will be critically examined. Students will be equipped with theories and practicum examining development, underdevelopment and their related issues within a contemporary political, economic and social framework. Students will also have exposure to current global development debates such as poverty, global inequality, sustainable development, democracy and security.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7635 - Issues in Third World Development HUMN - 2033 Issues in World Development Rich World Poor World (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2033  Issues in World Development: Rich World, Poor World (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700267  This subject introduces students to the field of international development, where the divide between the rich world and poor world takes a centre stage. While development has created prosperity around the world, it is not without discontents. Social and economic inequality at the global level is a real problem and has been increasing. The 'developed' and 'developing' world paradigm will be critically examined. Students will be equipped with theories and case studies examining development, underdevelopment and their related issues within a contemporary political, economic and social framework. Students will also have exposure to current global development debates such as poverty, global inequality, sustainable development, democracy and security.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 7635 - Issues in Third World Development HUMN 2032 - Issues in World Development Rich World Poor World  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2034  Keeping the Past  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100001  Legislation requires the preservation of natural, built and movable heritage, but choices about what to keep often produce controversy and reveal starkly varying opinions about what is historic. From the choice of people commemorated in statues to modest buildings on the site of new developments, local communities and central governments are divided about whose past is protected and praised. The historian's investigation of places and objects is an important part of the formal assessment process and may be part of controversial debates.  Parramatta has a rich selection of heritage places. How does heritage fit in a modern CBD? Site visits around the city will identify archaeological and architectural heritage to promote discussions, museums will showcase objects from the past, documents preserved in archives will offer insights and historical research techniques will help to answer the questions "What should be kept from the past?" and "Why should it be kept?"Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 9196 - Keeping the Past  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2036  Mangamai'bangawarra: Indigenous Science  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 300959  This subject explores aspects of Aboriginal science and medical science in the treatment and prevention of illness. The subject has a particular focus on the knowledge of the local D'harawal People. The culture and history of Indigenous Australians is introduced to provide a contextual backdrop to the study of Indigenous medical remedies from eastern Australia, the deserts, and the tropics. To complement this study, Indigenous perspectives on the seasons, weather and land management will be studied.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2037  Peace-Making and Peace-Building  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101575  The concept of Peace is more than just an absence or cessation of conflict, but also the achievement of social justice and equitable standards of living. Humanitarian work/interventions in response to war and natural and human-made disasters that result in refugee crises are referred to as peace-making whilst the implementation of sustainable Community Development programs aimed at achieving the empowerment and improved standards of living for vulnerable groups is referred to as peace-building. This subject examines and critiques some of the strategies of peace-making and peace-building that have been adopted both within Australia and internationally.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2038  Pigments of the Imagination  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101752  This subject is available to all Undergraduate students who have open electives.  Pigments of the Imagination challenges the accepted view that there is such a thing as 'race' based on skin colour and that identity is based on it. This subject will encourage students to consider their own definitions of race and explore the view that it is an imaginary concept. Students will examine the various ways race as an imaginary concept permeates our education practices and cultural representations influencing the construction of racially classified positions for Indigenous Australians as well as all Australians. Students will be encouraged, by critically analysing a range of cultural texts to re-imagine Indigenous and Non-Indigenous relations through flipped mode of delivery supported by face to face tutorials.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2039  Political Terror  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101797  Since the terrorist attacks of 11 September, 2001, threats of terrorism have been entrenched in both headlines and the collective psyche. Across the globe, terrorism, anti-terrorism and the politics of fear are influential factors in the formulation of domestic and foreign policies. The current wave of terror and counter-terror raises important questions.  What do we mean by terror? Is the war on terror really a war like no other? Is the current terrorist threat unprecedented? This subject will examine historical precedents and theories of terrorism.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2040  Politics of Sex and Gender  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100882  This subject provides an introduction to the study of the contemporary politics of sex and gender. Students study key concepts and learn to apply these concepts in the analysis of current issues. Concepts covered include the meanings of sex, gender and sexuality; biology and social constructionism; gendered bodies; doing gender; equality and difference. The concept of intersectionality - how gender intersects in complex relationships of power with other differences such as ethnicity, sexuality, dis/ability and class - is central to this area of study. The subject explores the meaning and potential for social change for a more equitable society and the obstacles to that. Strategies examined range from the use of targets and quotas, to social and cultural activism. Students have the opportunity to explore areas of personal and scholarly interest.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0160 - Sex Gender and Social Relations  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2044  Representing Everyday Life in Literary and Visual Cultures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101917  This subject explores how the realm of everyday life has been imagined and represented in a range of literary traditions and visual and media cultures. It examines what we understand by this concept, realist and experimental approaches to its representation, and how everyday life is shaped by various historical, social and cultural factors (e.g. technology, gender, class, war). With a focus on modern and contemporary texts and contexts, students will study primary works in relation to key theories of the everyday. Possible topics include: Victorian realism, Surrealism, stream of consciousness narration, social documentary photography, social realist cinema, postmodern narrative, blogs.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2046  Researching Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101906  This subject introduces students to the diverse field of cultural research. It outlines and explains  qualitative research methods and methodologies used by cultural researchers. Tutorials and assessment tasks involve 'hands-on' activities designed to familiarise students with the research process and research practices that explore taken-for-granted aspects of everyday life such as interviews, focus groups and observation based research; as well as sensory research, the use of diary methods, and the critically important ethical dimensions of social and cultural research. Through completion of this subject, students will gain critical literacies in creating and analysing a range of qualitative data.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 1066 Introduction to Culture and Society ORHUMN 1049 Understanding Visual Culture  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2048  Revaluing Indigenous Economics (Day Mode)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101753  Revaluing Indigenous Economics will examine Australia's Indigenous economy and its dynamics. It will challenge students to reflect on the significant contribution Indigenous Australians have made and continue to make to our growing economy. It will also challenge students to rethink the politics of the welfare economy as it relates to Indigenous Australians. Students will be introduced to a number of enterprise development case studies for example, The Arts, Mining and Land Development, Tourism and the Environment, Sports and Small Business.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2050  Social Research Methods (Block Mode)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101767  In this subject students are introduced to the research process and different approaches to research. Key research themes and concepts are examined, and students learn methods and techniques for gathering, analysing, and interpreting research data. The ethical and practical implications of research and the use of research results are discussed. Indigenous research issues are addressed, particularly for research with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander participants and communities.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2049 - Social Research Methods LGYA 7650 - Research and the Human Services (AREPMETRO)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2053  The Economics of Cities and Regions  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101591  'Economics of cities and regions' introduces the major political-economic issues facing cities and regions. Class discussions investigate how political-economic forces (such as globalisation, structural change etc) shape the development of cities and regions. Class activities enable students to apply economic principles to urban and regional planning and policy decisions, and teach students to analyse the social and distributional impacts of policy and planning decisions.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1283 - Urban Development Resource Allocation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2056  The Racial State  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101990  Racism is often thought of as both primordial and pathological. Racist states, such as Apartheid South Africa or Nazi Germany, are usually considered to be exceptions rather than the rule and mainly a thing of the past. This subject examines the ways in which, despite the challenge to racism, race remains a fundamental organising idea in modern western states, one that has a direct affect on our everyday realities. We will examine how race is reproduced through politics, culture, socialisation and economic structures. We will consider the effects this has on individual and societal lived experience in complex post-immigration, postcolonial societies.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2063 - New Ethnicities Old Racisms  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2057  Tourism in Society  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101598  In 2023 this subject replaced by TOUR 2004 - Tourism and Festivals in Society. In this subject students approach tourism as a cultural and social phenomenon and tourism industries, tourist behaviour, the tourist experience and tourism impacts are examined through a socio-cultural lens. Considering tourism as an agent of social change, the subject explores the interplay between tourism, mobility and globalisation, tourism and development, and tourism and world events.  The subject will also unpack some of the common motivations for leisure travel, explore the role of tourism in everyday life, and examine the interconnections between the media, consumer culture, visual culture and the tourist experience.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1046 - Tourism in Society (UWSC) LGYA 1264 - Tourism in Contemporary Society LGYB 8188 - Tourism Issues and Change  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2058  Urban Life/Urban Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100291  Big cities can be frantic, difficult, polluted and often dangerous places in which to live. Yet cities also contain possibilities for social and cultural stimulation not available elsewhere. This subject traces the origins and development of modern cities in all of their complexity. It looks at how industrial cities emerged in Europe and Australia, and at the threat that uncontrolled urban growth posed to social order. We examine the conditions of urban life that promote alienation and anonymity, and how people overcome social fragmentation. There is discussion of modern cities - from those that sprawl, like Sydney, to the relatively compact and dense centres of Europe, the north-eastern United States and Asia. We look at the gendered nature of public space, and how class and ethnic tensions are played out in cities. Students read a range of texts on urban culture and society. These include classic works by writers like Friedrich Engels, George Simmel and Walter Benjamin, to the contemporary work of David Harvey, Richard Sennet and Mike Davis.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2061  Women with Muslim Identity  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101879  An exploration of perceptions of Muslim women and of the meaning and significance of Muslim identity for women today. Students will analyse ways in which Muslim women perceive themselves and are perceived by others in the context of contemporary Islamic revivalism, focussing on differences and relationships among various outsider's and insider's perceptions. A central focus will be the resurgence of the veil in the context of contemporary Islamic revivalism; Students will explore the meanings of veiling in the context of discussions and debates on the role of women, equality and freedom, cultural diversity, religious values and secularity.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2062  Youth Cultures and Moral Panics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100298  Young people have long been the focus of social fears. Public figures regularly express concern about the disorder created by unruly youths, or the effects of change on young people. This is the case in relation to popular music, 'youth gangs', new technologies and other areas. This subject will consider how young people became defined as a problem by politicians, policy, the media and others. Resulting 'moral panics' represent social anxieties around economic, social and technological change, producing calls for 'solutions' which often entail repressive laws or policing. Students will examine a range of case studies from Australia and elsewhere.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2064  (Poly)Crisis, Cross-cultural Responses & Resilience  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102790  This elective subject is focused on (poly)crisis, responses and resilience strategies in cross-cultural contexts. In our contemporary world, humans must navigate crises clusters that are entangled and re-enforcing. Countries across the world face similar social, economic and environmental challenges, but these manifest and are responded to in context specific ways. This subject will give students the opportunity to undertake a 14-day international field trip where they will be immersed in a rich intercultural and cross-disciplinary learning environment. WSU students will buddy up with local students in a co-created learning setting, where they will each share their cultural perspectives and discipline specific skills and knowledge, in understanding how (poly)crisis impacts various facets of everyday local community life, and how these are managed. Students will gain sought after international experience, build cultural competency skills and regional relationships, and apply what they have learned to parallel (poly)crisis situations in Australia.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2065  Self and Society  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102788  This core theory subject for sociology majors introduces students to traditional and contemporary debates in social thought and provides tools for sociological analysis. The subject outlines the development of  sociological thought in the context of changing  social realities and relations between the individual and society, with a particular focus on the formation of the Self. A number of theorists and theoretical areas are addressed, spanning over 150 years of evolving sociological analysis. This enables students to better grasp the relation between theory and application, the diversity of sociological analysis, as well as providing the capacity to think across a number of different sociological schools of thought.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 3071 - Self and Society  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2066  Investigating and Communicating Social Problems  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102816  This subject builds interdisciplinary social science skills to investigate and engage with social challenges that impact contemporary society. Students are introduced to the methods and principles of research for community consultation, strengths assessment and capacity building. Data literacy skills will be developed, with a focus on understanding and creating qualitative and quantitative data and how they are used within contemporary society. Students will be asked to investigate and intervene in social challenges using ethical and evidence-based analyses. The subject is aimed to suit students who are pursuing either a research or occupational trajectory and assessments are tailored to discipline-appropriate learning.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2049 - Social Research Methods  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2067  History of the Ancient World  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102814  Students explore the rise and fall of major civilizations in the ancient world.  The subject surveys empires from Europe to East Asia.  The subject surveys the transition from hunter gatherers to the age of agriculture and the rise of city states, and vast empires with far-flung trading networks.  It also looks at the impact of ancient pandemics, technology and alcohol, mythology, religion and philosophical ideas.     The subject allows students to explore how ideas of nature and spirituality defined imperial power centres and how these empires in turn drove trade and created vast cultural zones that still impact the world today.  Students will read and respond to the voices of the past and forge their own interpretation of the broad outline of the ancient world.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2068  Cultures of Southeast Asia and Oceania  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102843  This subject will introduce students to ethnographic field study through a close examination of two regions with which Australia is geographically and politically aligned; Oceania (the Pacific Islands) and South-east Asia. Drawing upon classic and contemporary ethnography the subject will provide opportunities for comparative and trans-historical studies of how cultures in these regions have been constructed and changed in relation to larger global dynamics. The subject will also provide an insight into the ways in which social theory is developed in the context of attempts to explain and interpret cultural difference. Key topics of study, explored through case studies, will include the colonial experience, tradition and modernities, nations and nationalism, transnationalism, religion, social conflict, and material cultures. The subject will include a close study of visual and virtual research methodologies.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2024  - Ethnographies of Southeast Asia and the Pacific  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2069  Society, Culture and Human Diversity  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102844  In this subject students will conduct comparative studies of how people create a living and make meaning of their everyday experiences in various contemporary contexts. By using cultural diversity as an analytical lens, students will engage with the broader questions about what it means to be human, how cultures change and adapt and how studies of human diversity can provide answers to many of the challenges of the future. Through case studies, critical analyses and self-reflection students will also examine how key subject themes such as cultural competence, ethnographic inquiry and comparativism are applied in anthropology and other key employment areas for social science and humanities graduates.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2012  - Anthropologies of the Everyday  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2070  First Peoples and Criminal Justice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102916  How does colonialism underscore the foundational narratives, knowledges and operation of the legal and criminal justice institutions of colonised nations? Focusing primarily on the Australian context of colonial invasion and settlement, this subject explores the plight of Indigenous peoples and their severe over-representation in the Australian criminal justice system. Studying the impact of colonisation and exploring Indigenous narratives, students will critically examine  issues faced by Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander people and their experience of criminal justice in Australia. Overall, the subject will equip students with an understanding of the relationship between dominant colonial narratives of race and institutional racism, while considering how Indigenous knowledge can inform better social and criminal justice outcomes for Indigenous populations. Comparative examples of criminal (in)justice for Indigenous populations in other colonised nations will also be considered.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 2019 - First Peoples and Criminal Justice  Incompatible Subjects: WELF 2008 - Human Rights Human Services and the Law  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2071  Knowledge Journeys  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800240  This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. It examines sources of knowledge and how we learn. Students are supported to approach new knowledge as a journey of developing skills as independent, life-long, self-directed learners. Analysis of knowledge journeys of others, using creative enquiry, and Indigenous learning techniques, are key learning activities in the unit. A focus on knowledge and research journeys, rather than 'outcomes' alone, facilitates learning from mistakes in seeking solutions to real world problems. Fundamental research approaches will be considered and applied in the subject.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2045 - Research Stories  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2072  Logic, Argumentation and Post-Truth  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800241  The subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. This subject prepares learners for leadership roles by developing their skills in logical and rhetorical argumentation, and persuasive techniques. Throughout the subject, students will appraise the structure of logical and rhetorical arguments, apply persuasive techniques, and examine the influence of post-truth on global issues and public opinion.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2035 - Logic Rhetoric and Argumentation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2073  Issues in Contemporary Heritage  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The aim of this subject is to get students thinking critically about heritage. To do so, it examines two main questions: “What is heritage?” and “Why does it matter?”. While the answers to both may appear fairly straightforward, this subject is designed to make students question and problematise their own assumptions, rethink what is and is not heritage, and consider why, in fact, we even care at all. The subject will introduce concepts such as national identity, memorialisation, belonging, collective memory, forgetting and repatriation. It will also introduce and examine heritage legislation, theory and practice.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TOUR 2001 - Issues in Contemporary Heritage  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2074  Origins of the Secular West  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Early Modern European culture was underpinned by religious conceptions of nature, society and morality. The Modern West sees itself as having emancipated itself from these religious underpinnings, and as being grounded in human naturalistic and scientific values. This subject traces the transition from the first of these conceptions to the second, through politics, philosophy, culture and science.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2075  Sports History in Global Perspective  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The subject explores the history of popular sports, including cricket, rugby, soccer, golf, baseball, tennis, the Olympic Games, and table tennis. It uses case studies from different countries and time periods to highlight how sports shaped, and were shaped by national identity, politics, diplomacy as well as class, race and gender. Drawing on examples from Australia and the world, students learn about how the professionalisation of sports in the early 1900s created immense controversy over the participation of working class athletes. It also explores how sports became parts of national identity, such as cricket and rugby in Australia, sumo wrestling in Japan, and baseball in the United States of America. Students taking the subject will learn how popular attitudes towards men’s and women’s sports changed across the twentieth century as a result of large-scale social, political and cultural movements. 

Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 2076  The Classical Tradition  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The cultures and intellectual life of Ancient Greece and Rome influenced European life and thought for much of the succeeding two thousand years. But the greatest influence came with the ‘classical revival’ of the 1400s through to the 1700s, beginning with the ‘Renaissance’. This subject outlines several key themes in Ancient Culture: moral and political philosophy, literature, history, and rhetoric and the art of speaking, It then traces the later careers and revivals of these themes in the period 1400-1700.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3009  Alternatives to Violence  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101570  The key tenet of this subject is the belief that there are superior alternatives to violence for peace building. Holistic development (including socio-cultural, political, economic, governance, etc.) provides the best and most constructive alternatives to violence. The subject examines different alternatives to violence within the broader context of peace and development studies. Students will be equipped with theoretical approaches to alternatives to violence and an ability to evaluate and apply those alternatives in social development contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3012  Applied Indigenous Research Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102310  In this subject students will undertake a guided personal inquiry project. Students will investigate and reflect on the practical, cultural and ethical complexities of being an Indigenous researcher. Students will examine ethics guidelines for research with Indigenous peoples and the realities of applying them in practice. They will study examples of Indigenous research scholarship to develop and present their own Statement of Research Philosophy.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 2050  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1682 - Rethinking Research with Indigenous Australians Independent Study project (Block Mode) HUMN 3070 - Rethinking Research with Indigenous Australians Independent Study project (Day Mode)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3013  Australian Colonial History  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102004  This subject introduces students to the 18th and 19th century foundations of modern Australia, and to the social, economic, political and cultural events that shaped Australian history. Students will be encouraged to consider the process of historical change within an historiographical framework and will use primary sources to explore some of these debates. Some of the themes explored will be colonisation, convictism, class, urbanisation, gender, land, indigenous society, culture and political developments leading to the federation of the Australian colonies in 1901.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 1019 - Foundations of Modern Australia HUMN 3014 - Australian History 1860-1920  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3015  Australian History Around Us  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102516  Historians are detectives, searching for clues and unravelling the puzzles of the past. A walk down your local street holds many clues about the history of a local area - from the name of the street, the architecture of the buildings, the trees planted by the road, even the new building that indicates a recent change. Local studies are used as the foundation for socio-economic studies across many disciplines while an understanding of local history contributes to establishing personal and community identities. In this subject students will learn research skills to uncover the lives of people from the past, re-imagine familiar places and consider events long forgotten that happened in the streets of their suburbs. The final assignment is a chance to turn these discoveries into a new history for their community.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3038 - Exploring Local History  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3016  Australian History Since 1920  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100987  In 2013 this subject replaced by 101999 - Twentieth Century Australia. This subject includes a general overview of major developments in Australian political and social history since 1920, and also focuses on particular issues such as the Great Depression, 1949 coal strike, the Petrov Affair and the Whitlam dismissal.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0953 - Australian History Since 1920 LGYB 4929 - Australian History Since 1920  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3017  Australian Indigenous History from Federation to Reconciliation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101872  This subject aims to explore the history of the relationship between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians from Federation (1901) to the present.  At the beginning of the twentieth century, Australia became a nation without paying much attention to the first Australians.  It was widely assumed that they would die out or at least remain an insignificant welfare problem.  Instead, these first Australians survived and grew as a minority population; they also increasingly made themselves heard as a people - so successfully that in 2008 the Parliament of Australia felt obliged formally to apologise for their years of mistreatment.  This subject highlights two stories: the non-Indigenous transition from complacency to engagement, and the survival and increasing political effectiveness of the descendants of Australia's first peoples.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3018  Australian Indigenous History: From first contact to 'dying race'  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101919  Until 1788, Australia was peopled by those who we now call Aborigines. Then Europeans arrived and began to spread across the continent, displacing and marginalising the Aborigines. This subject will tell the stories of that transformation, beginning with an account of the ideas and motivations of British authority in the late eighteenth century and concluding at the moment when six British colonies formed a federated nation. Topics to be covered will include: violence, humanitarianism, Christian missions, institutional authority. The course will emphasise and explain regional and temporal differences in the ways that Indigenous and non-Indigenous interacted. Students will study primary sources and learn to understand them in context.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1557 - Australian Indigenous History  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3019  Britain in the Age of Botany Bay, 1760-1815  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102079  This subject introduces the social, economic, political and cultural forces that shaped the society from which the first white Australians came. It considers processes of historical change and uses primary sources to explore historical debates concerning these changes. Themes covered include social class; sex and gender; crime and punishment; industrial revolution, urbanisation, and public health; the public sphere; political life; war, militarisation, and empire. This subject places special emphasis on the use of digitised primary sources, training students in their use. It also requires an extended piece of original primary source-based historical research. The subject spans the period 1760-1815.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3023  Climate Change and Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101870  This subject introduces climate change as a complex social, cultural and political phenomenon, one that is re-shaping the way we live in the world and future lifestyles. Because climate change is highly contested, the course critically examines the issue from different theoretical, disciplinary, social and cultural perspectives. Topics range from cultural theory and forms of social action to the history and construction of climate change as concepts and debates around nature, culture, science, economics and consumption; to social justice, Indigenous knowledge systems, popular culture, the media and Australian politics, global governance, cities and urban planning.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3024  Comparative Nationalism  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102003  Nationalism, an ideology considered by many to have passed its peak, now dominates world politics and permeates political discourse. This phenomenon is crucial to understanding Trump's America First campaign, the problems affecting the EU and secession, the tensions and conflicts that are garbed in a religious rhetorical veil, and which constitute much of the agenda of today's "war on terror." What is nationalism? What is national identity? What are the main forms of its articulation in history and in the present, across geographical borders, class boundaries, gender and generational cleavages?  This subject will survey the major theories of nationalism, and examine diverse examples of historical and contemporary nationalisms, predominantly within the European context. This is an upper level subject whose readings draw on a variety of approaches and examples and aim at providing a solid introduction to the scholarly literature.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3025  Conceptualising Islam  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102494  The 'Muslim question' has been a topic of interest to Western scholarship for over four hundred years. This subject introduces students to multidisciplinary approaches to the study of Islam and invites students to consider the construction and deconstruction of Islamic Studies as a field of study at various stages of history. The subject provides students with the opportunity to gain increased awareness of both the debates within the field and those that scrutinise the field. That is, becoming comfortable with interrogating the cluster of theoretical and methodological strategies for scholarly inquiry into Islamic Studies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3026  Convicts and Settlers - Australian History 1788 - 1840  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101799  In little more than half a century Australia was transformed from a convict prison to a parliamentary democracy. The people who made this transformation were the ex-convicts, free settlers and first generation of colonial born children. The survival of data about ordinary people between 1788-1840 makes it possible to investigate families, communities, employment, law and order and the daily experiences of urban and frontier life in these formative years. Using family history resources on the internet and sophisticated digital archives of historical records in Australia and overseas, this subject will challenge assumptions about "who do you think we were?"Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3029  Cultures of Crime and Punishment  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102479  The focus of this subject is on the ways in which crime and punishment are defined and practiced in a range of different cultures, and how different countries' social customs and cultural values influence the evolution of their understanding of, and response to, criminal behaviour. Drawing on both theoretical frameworks and practical examples, the subject will provide students with an opportunity to work in a collaborative learning environment, working with both instructors and other students to undertake and communicate research logically.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3030  Cyber Justice (UG)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102529  The world is being transformed by digital technologies.  The same technologies that make life more comfortable for some can unleash violence and destruction for others. Cyber war and cyber terrorism offer new risks for the international community. Bullying, identity theft and bank fraud, on a more local level, are given a new life in the cyber world.  Cyber technologies also provide enhanced opportunities for detecting and apprehending criminals, resolving disputes and modernising justice processes. New social spaces are opened up (social media networks, the 'dark web'), and new identities made possible (online grooming profile, avatars). How does the law keep up with the emergence of new crimes and technology-enhanced versions of old ones, and how do the cultural worlds of hackers, crackers and trackers work?  The subject examines how justice processes and spaces, as well as criminal networks and strategies, are being reimagined to take advantage of the new technologies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Incompatible Subjects: LAWS 3015 - Cyber Law and Justice  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3031  Death and Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100996  This subject is a critical introduction to the social practices surrounding death in modernity. Although primarily addressing social arrangements in the West, the subject examines the bio-politics of death in a wider cultural framework, with attention to geographies of power and economic influence. The subject traces the historical development of concepts of the individual; the impact on Western ideas around death of genocide and modern warfare; and assesses contemporary ethical, social  and medical controversies (like euthanasia and the trade in body parts). The subject attempts to demonstrate the relationship of death to: social institutions; ideas of community and the construction of self in modernity.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1307 - Death and Culture LGYA 0949 - Death and Culture  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3032  Dictators, Democrats and Dreamers: Indonesia 1942 to now  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102188  This subject surveys the post-independence history of Indonesia, Australia's nearest and most important Asian neighbour. Commencing with the Japanese Occupation during World War ll, it traces Indonesia's often turbulent contemporary history through dictatorship and poverty to democracy and prosperity, bringing the story up to the latest developments at the time of teaching. Students will study Indonesia's struggle for independence and then equally challenging struggle to build a new nation able to take its place in the world amidst serious economic problems and profound political differences. The subject is also concerned with the historiographical problems confronting students of Indonesian history.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 2054 - The History of Modern Indonesia  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3033  Digital Cultures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102410  This is the compulsory Level 3 capstone subject for the Cultural and Society major and a compulsory subject in the Digital Cultures major. It gives students essential skills for researching and analysing contemporary cultural and social processes through a digital lens. Key topics include youth and digital culture, digital citizenship, racism and the digital, film and games, and digital work and economies. Through this subject, students gain an understanding of how digital technologies transform everyday practices, meanings and identities, create new opportunities and problems for addressing societal challenges and explore what it means to participate in a digital society, now and in the future.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3028 - Culture Society and Globalisation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3034  Emotions, Culture and Community  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100860  This subject examines forms of cultural expression and collective selfunderstanding articulated as emotional identifications. Topics covered may include shame, pride, responsibility, forgiveness,resentment, hope, disgust, generosity, happiness, hate and love. The subject explores how these have been taken up in contemporary cultural analysis as a focus for understanding affinities and conflicts between individuals and communities and for how Australians imagine their historical interconnectedness. It introduces some key theoretical perspectives that have been, and might be, applied to the study of emotions, culture and community.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3035  Enlightenment and Revolution  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101974  The Enlightenment and Age of Revolutions are pivotal moments in Western and global history and had lasting political and cultural repercussions. This module seeks to explore links between them and to place them in wider intellectual and cultural context. Particular focus will be placed upon the paradigmatic French revolution, but within a framework emphasising other revolutions of the period. Hence individual classes treat society and government in Europe; the moderate and radical strands of enlightenment; precursors to the French revolution in the Atlantic world; the public sphere; the French revolution and Terror; Revolutionary Imperialism and Napoleonic rule; the revolutionary legacy.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3036  Ethics in Historical Perspective  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102007  The subject provides an historical overview of the different types of ethical beliefs and practices that have been used in specific social settings from the classical world to the modern West. It looks at different types of spiritual and secular ethical behaviours, and the doctrines associated with each. It focuses upon the types of ethical argument and judgment-making specific to particular professions, occupations and social statuses over time. It concludes by surveying the different types of ethics taught to professionals today in the West, and on the differences between each, as well as the specific requirements of each. It will be of interest both to students with an interest in the history of ideas, and to students who want to learn more about ethics and moral decision-making.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0908 - Ethical Cultures  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3039  Food: A Cultural History  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102305  The modern world seems obsessed by food. This subject will look at the historical development of sources of food, from archaeological evidence of the earliest human meals through the emergence of agriculture and its scientific modifications to the physical and cultural evidence of technological changes in methods of preservation, preparation, cooking and eating various foods. We will examine the globalisation of food and the varieties of historical cuisines around the world. Food is also integral to our social, religious and cultural lives and the subject will investigate the historical origins of some of these customs. Students will have the opportunity to range across time and place (through readings, recipes and field trips) to explore foods that are part of their cultural heritage - or feasts that they wish they could have eaten from centuries long past.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3040  From Vindication to Liberation: A Comparative History of Feminism  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102520  Beginning with Mary Wollstonecraft's A Vindication of the Rights of Woman, this historical survey analyses the Western feminist ideas and action over the past two centuries, exploring examples from Australia, France, the UK and the US. Important stages in the history of Western feminism will be studied, from the early equality feminism of the eighteenth century, to domestic feminism and the woman suffrage campaigns of the nineteenth. Aspects of the history of more recent feminism will include such developments as the role of maternalism in the creation of the welfare state, and the shift to an emphasis on liberation in the 1960s and 1970s.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3041  Geographies of Migration  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101694  An international and cross-institutional discussion of immigration and settlement. Covering the theory and experience of immigration. Considers the international and national regulation of immigration and settlement policies, as well as refugee policy. Case studies are from Australia and Canada, and Singapore. Within mixed tutorial groups (with students from Singapore, Vancouver & Sydney) students will exchange experiences and opinions of immigration.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3042  Global Politics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101735  The experiences of globalization are explored from a variety of levels across time and space, from the individual to the local, the national to the international. The focus in this course will be on issues of politics, both domestic and international, but we will keep in mind that globalization is a phenomenon that is explored and assessed by a wide range of disciplines, including history, sociology, politics, law, economics, anthropology, gender studies, human geography, economics, regional and area studies, science and technology, health and epidemiology.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3043  Globalisation and Sustainability  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200815  Globalisation and Sustainability introduces students to critical debates about the role of global and national institutions of power in determining economic, environmental, social and cultural outcomes. Students will be introduced to opposing and controversial theoretical perspectives on globalisation and sustainability and issues relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples to improve policy and practice in the future. In the process students will be encouraged to consider problems relating to ethics, rights, justice and democracy in society. This subject can also be taken by students who have studied social science and humanities.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3044  Healing and Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101716  This subject takes as its starting point the idea that disease has social and cultural as well as biological origins. What people define as good health and illness, and how they treat the latter are profoundly shaped by cultural frameworks. Healing practices, including biomedicine, are underpinned by cultural understandings and larger configurations of power.  We will examine notions of disease causality across cultures and explore the argument that good and ill health are about more than just the body. Popular understandings of illness and its origins, and techniques for responding to and seeking to remedy illness can be a reflection of how different societies imagine their place in the world.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Incompatible Subjects: LGYA 0933 - Special Topics in Cultural and Social Analysis  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3046  History of Modern China to 1949  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100507  This Asian history subject is concerned with the transformation of China in a social, political and intellectual context since the late eighteenth century. The subject focuses on China's modern transformation in the first half of the twentieth century and its relevance for contemporary China. The scope is broad, encompassing changes from the last phases of the Qing Dynasty to the Republican era and the rise to power of the Communists in 1949. The approach is issue-oriented, thematic and, where appropriate, chronological.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0142 - History of Modern China 1850-1949 Reform and Revolution  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3047  History of Muslim Civilisations and Ideas  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102184  This subject focuses on intellectual, societal, institutional and technological developments within the Muslim world. It looks at comparisons and interconnections between regions and peoples and outlines the history and context of Muslim political thought from the death of Mohamed to the contemporary period. The subject will have a strong historiographical focus that examines 'Islamic data-sets' and assesses the concepts of primary and secondary source materials which conventionally are used to construct interpretations of the past.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3048  History of Sexuality  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101991  This subject introduces students to some key debates about the definition and origin of sexuality as a concept, and to the historical origins of particular sexual identities and the political values attributed to them.  It teaches students to take account of the differing ways that forms of desire, pleasure, obscenity, pornography, perversion, sin and transgression have been articulated across time and place. In the subject we traverse an array of temporal moments and geographic loci, drawn to the 'hotspots' of historiographic contention.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3049  Home and Away: Ethnicity and Migration in Australia  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101611  Using contemporary and historical sociological accounts of migration and ethnicity, this subject analyses the social, cultural and economic impact of international migration, with specific reference to Australia. It further introduces students to major sociological issues, both theoretical and empirical, relating to the construction of migrant groups within settler societies through interviews and qualitative analysis. Key concerns of the subject include the position of indigenous peoples, race and racism, ethnic identity, and ethnic conflict and cooperation in society.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1305 - Sociology of Ethnicity and Migration  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3050  Housing Markets and Policy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101592  Housing affordability and equity are central urban problems. This subject focuses on the history and current challenges of housing markets and policy in Australia. Comparisons are drawn between rental and home ownership, the roles of the public, social, and private sectors, and between Australian, European, and North American housing markets and policies. We will critically evaluate how policy, markets and the experiences and practices of households interact. We will consider key housing challenges including ending homelessness, housing for health, housing in an ageing society, and housing in times of crisis such as climate change, bushfire and pandemic.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1331 Regional Planning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3051  Human Rights and Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101988  This subject examines the cultural consequences of the rise of the global human rights regime. It introduces debates about cultural relativism and universal human rights and explores a number of areas of contemporary conflict between cultural practices and human rights norms. It also examines the role of human rights NGOs in creating a new global human rights culture, and asks what it means to be a subject of human rights.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3054  Islam in Southeast Asia  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101467  Islam is a significant feature of Southeast Asia's past and present. Employing methodologies and insights drawn primarily from history, political science, and anthropology, this subject explores Islam's place in and contribution to contemporary Southeast societies and politics, as well as its history in the region. Major themes to be explored include: the debates about Islam's spread to Southeast Asia and its interaction with the region's established socio-religious features, the colonial experience, Islam's often contested place in the national life of Southeast Asian nations, its past and ongoing links with the rest of the Muslim world, as well as contemporary issues associated with the War on Terror and conflicts in Muslim societies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 0177 - Islam in Asian and World Politics  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3056  Islam in the West  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101822  The subject focuses on the question of Muslim presence in the West with reference to the dynamics of inclusion and exclusion. Its aim is to enable students to look at the question of Muslim presence in terms of an action-reaction phenomenon in which different outlooks, ideas, institutions and nodes of information and authenticity interact to create an environment in which identities are developed. These identities then go on to shape the cooperative and conflictual relationships between different subsections of Muslim minorities and the majority non-Muslim Western states and societies. While focusing on the contemporaneity of the question, the subject looks at the study of Muslim presence in the West in a socio-historical context by providing an understanding of how Muslim-Western contacts shaped the nature of their relationship in the past. Then, the subject looks to contrasting the changes before and after 9/11 with reference to a set of ideas, institutions and contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3057  Islam, Media and Conflict  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101468  Provides students with an understanding of global, regional and local news media production and representations of Islam and Muslim societies. It discusses new, emerging and alternative forms of media discourses of conflict in the Muslim world, and analyses selected news reports as forms of case studies. Taking the notion of 'Orientalism' as its starting point, the subject/unit critically examines the extent to which the mediatisation of conflict impacts relations between Islam and the West vis-a-vis debates on Orientalism, 'Asian values' and Islamic world views.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3058  Islamic Revivalism in the Globalised World  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102297  In the last decades there has been a surge in Islamic consciousness in Musllim communities across the globe. Islamic history has been punctuated by periods of revivalist activity and its hallmark always has been a desire for the return to Islamic origins - the basics of the faith as enshrined in the islamic scripture. This subject explores the phenomenon of contemporary Islamic revivalism. The subject contrasts contemporary Islamic revivalism with earlier expressions. It aims to demonstrate that contemporary Islamic revivalism has manifested itself in a multiplicity of forms as a defensive reaction to an epoch characterised as modernity.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3060  Modern Japanese History  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100271  This subject considers Japan's trajectory from the battle of Sekigahara in 1600 until the atomic bombings in 1945. We will examine the samurai and ritual suicide, the tea ceremony and Zen Buddhism. We will read tales told by those who frequented the "floating world," populated by wealthy merchants, geisha, and sumo wrestlers. We will consider the creation of Imperial Japan, and we will study its emergence as the only non-Western Great Power. We will enquire into Japan's fledgling democracy in the 1920s, and its descent into militarism and aggression in the 1930s. Finally, we will consider Japan's participation in World War II: its victories, its losses, its propaganda, and its abject defeat.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3061  Mystical Islam: The Emergence of Sufism in World History  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102495  Global Islamism has projected a particularly severe, even militant face of Islam across much of the world. Much less well known is the fact that for much of its history Islam has had a quite different face: it has been mystical and contemplative more than proselytising. The Sufist tradition was formed within the first three centuries of Islamic history; its influence spread far and wide across the Muslim World where "Sufis" played a pivotal role in engaging non-Muslim peoples both within and on the fringes of their world. The subject explores religious pluralism and an alternative narrative in Islam.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3062  Napoleon: the Making of a Legend  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102343  This subject appraises the achievement of Napoleon Bonaparte and the manner in which he has been portrayed in his own propaganda, by his contemporaries and by historians. It also considers the historical impact of the Napoleonic and anti-Napoleonic myths in the history of France and Europe. At the heart of the module is the paradox of Napoleon's enduring popularity in France, despite his responsibility for crushing defeats in 1812-1814 and again 1815.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3063  Peace & Development Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101571  The Peace & Development major is concerned with understanding and addressing inequities of power, wealth & opportunity that contribute to international and local conflicts and environmental degradation. In this capstone subject students will have the opportunity to consolidate their understanding, knowledge and skills of peace and development issues through planning, implementing and writing up individual or collective projects. Students will identify individual and collective actions that can be taken to improve conditions so that opportunities for peaceful, equitable & sustainable living are created locally & globally.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 1028  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1314 - Work-based Learning Project Humanitarian Peace and Health Studies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3064  Politics, Power and Resistance  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101985  This subject examines the effects of politics on society and of the social on politics. Politics is understood as a struggle for defining how we live in common with others. We examine how power is attained and maintained and how some ideologies dominate over others to shape opportunities for challenging the status quo. Our focus is the contemporary nation-state in the context of globalisation, increased transnationalism, and shifting balances of power. Key themes include economic and social inequality in the modern state, the colonial power matrix, discipline and punishment, gender and race, and resistance to oppression. Each week will combine theoretical approaches and case-study based 'perspectives' on the topic.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3065  Postcolonial Australian Cinema  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101987  This subject will examine the role of cinema in forming images of national and cultural identity. The subject will explore the development of Indigenous and postcolonial cinema in Australia. The subject will discuss political debates and issues in postcolonial Australian cinema, and will raise questions about the nature of memory as it is mediated by cinematic experience, the representation of history, and the history of representation of indigenous cultures and peoples. The subject will examine these questions through a study of postcolonial Australian cinema produced by both Indigenous and non-Indigenous filmmakers.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3021 - Cinema Culture Memory  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3066  Power as a Cultural System  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102348  In this subject students will explore notions of power, domination, authority and conflict from an anthropological perspective. Students will draw upon specific case studies of the social and political organisation of a variety of communities to understand how social order is perceived, achieved and maintained cross-culturally, through local systems of governance but also through social categories such as race, kinship, ethnicity and nations. Through these examinations students will also apply anthropological insights in order to understand how social practices such as participation, collaboration, resistance and violence operate in local political contexts. In the final part of the subject students will assess the various ways anthropologists work with and against local power structures and to what extent ethnography and applied anthropological work can intervene in systems of oppression.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 1016  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3067  Power, Politics and Knowledge  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 200752  Please note that this subject is no longer on offer.  Please contact business.courses@uws.edu.au or phone (02) 9685 9200 for further information. The aim of this subject is to provide students with a thorough grasp of the complex relationships between power, politics and knowledge in organisational settings. It also highlights the need for managers to use power ethically and equitably in workplaces. These aims are addressed through an examination of a range of theories of power, and topics such as: distribution and exercise of power in organisations, organisational politics, gender and power, language and power, resistance to power, and others. Innovative class activities and assessment methods (e.g., brainstorming; storytelling; film analysis) are used in this subject to ensure that students are able to effectively apply theoretical concepts to real life situations.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYB 9015 - Power Politics and Knowledge BUSM 3056 - Power Politics and Knowledge  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3068  Public Health Response in Complex Emergencies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102369  This subject examines several different aspects of public health in emergencies including rapid assessment of the health status of the population, public health surveillance measures, and the priorities in an emergency phase. To effectively respond to complex emergencies, government and non-government organisations must enact policy and activity to prevent, protect against, and respond to injuries and threats posed by infectious disease outbreaks and hunger. The subject provides an outline of the principles of disaster prevention, preparedness and mitigation, and introduces students to aspects of human resources in the coordination of different operational initiatives.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Co-requisite(s): HUMN 2017  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3069  Queer Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102191  Queer culture will introduce students to queer theory and provide opportunities to use these theories in the close study of cultural practice and politics. Queer theory counters the idea that people have stable sexes, genders and sexualities. Instead, queer theory argues that the experience of those that are homosexual, bisexual, transgender, and intersex highlight the frequent mis-matches in what are taken for granted to be 'normal' experiences of identity. Queer theory demonstrates the impossibility of a natural or normal sexuality, but it also demonstrates the problem with the terms 'man' and 'woman', 'male' and 'female', 'normal' and 'abnormal'. In Queer culture students will learn about queer theories and have the opportunity to apply these theories to an in-depth and personally engaging study of queer politics and activism; queer media, film and performance; and queer sex, selfhood, and identity trans/formations.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3070  Rethinking Research with Indigenous Australians: Independent Study Project (Day Mode)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101759  This subject will provide students with an exciting opportunity to undertake an Independent Study Project on an Indigenous topic. Students will gain greater knowledge of Indigenous people and develop effective communication skills as well as a level of cultural competency. The Independent Study Project will expose students to the complexities of the cultural inter-relationships and the politics of undertaking research with Indigenous people. It will also provide students with skills and ideas for future research projects that will add to Indigenous knowledge and provide a sound foundation for ethical research.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3075  Sociology of Religion  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101359  In this subject some of the main sociological approaches to the study of religion will be considered. The subject will be orientated particularly to the tension between religion and social theory in the evolution of sociological thought. It addresses the impact of religion and religious bodies on Australian society and politics. The subject will focus on the relation of theory and practice, on the research of contemporary religious practice, and on the contemporary relevance of major theorists in the sociology of religion. It will address issues such as Buddhism, Fundamentalism(s), gender in religion, globalisation, Islam, modernity/post modernity, neo-paganism, networks in spiritualities, New Age, popular culture, and new religious movements.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: Unit LGYB 5040 - Sociology of Religion  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3076  Sultans, Colonists and Nationalists: Indonesia C1200-1942  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102187  This subject examines the historical background of Indonesia's struggle to attain independent nationhood. Emphasis will be placed on social, cultural and political factors that shaped Indonesia prior to 1942, encompassing the classical period of the Hindu-Buddhist kingdoms, the rise of the early modern Islamic sultanates, the first encounters between Europeans and the peoples of the 'Malay world', the emergence of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) as a dominant force in the region, the subsequent imposition of the Dutch colonial rule, and, most significantly, the development of modern Indonesian nationalism.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 2054 - The History of Modern Indonesia  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3077  Sustainable Futures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101569  In this subject we will explore the questions 'can we create a sustainable society? If so what would it look like and how could it be done; is it possible to live ethically with each other and the planet?' While major contemporary theoretical concepts will be explored the emphasis is on developing sustainable alternatives to the way we now live both locally and globally. Particular attention will be paid to thinking ecologically, postcolonial development and issues of race and gender.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3078  The Anthropologies of Gender and Sexualities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102349  Examining the social construction of gender has been central to anthropological inquiries since the 1930s.  Early ethnographic studies were instrumental in debunking gender essentialism and challenging the hegemony of western constructs about 'masculinity' and 'femininity'. Since the 1930s, critical Anthropological theories and ethnographies have through cross-cultural comparison, demonstrated the great variation in expressions of individual sexuality/ies, the dynamics and confines behind the construction of gender roles and the cultural meaning and expression of gender categories across the globe. This subject will address the ongoing exploration of and challenges to the sex (biology) vs. gender (culture) dichotomy and contemporary cultural, social and political transformation (manipulation) of these categories.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 1016  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3079  The Asian Century  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101957  This subject explores whether the 21st century can be referred to as the Asian Century. It addresses itself to a host of questions, including: What is the Asian Century? How does it differ from the American Century (20th Century) and the British Century (19th Century)? What are the historical, cultural and philosophical foundations of the Asian Century? How has Asia been transformed since World War II, and more recently? What are the risks and challenges for Asian states in the Asian Century? What are the challenges and the opportunities for the West (including Australia) in the Asian Century?Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3080  The History of Southeast Asia  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102491  This subject introduces students to the history of Southeast Asia, and to the major ideas and debates pertaining to the historical development of Southeast Asia as an important and distinctive world region in its own right. The course will examine the historical, cultural and religious factors that have shaped Southeast Asian societies, from antiquity to the modern era. Key topics include the origins and characteristics of early civilisations, traditional patterns of state formation, global trade networks and European imperialism, popular resistance and the nationalist challenge to the colonial order, decolonisation in Cold War Southeast Asia, and nation-building in the twentieth century.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3081  The International Relations of the Middle East Since 1945  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101783  This subject offers a historical study of the international relations of the Middle East from 1945 to the present.  It examines the relations of Middle Eastern states to global structures of power; the pattern of relations between regional states; the causes of regional wars and international co-operation; the impact of domestic factors on the foreign policy of states; the importance of oil to international politics and the global economy; and the role of ideologies and non-state forces in international relations and between states in the Middle East.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3082  The Making of the 'Aborigines'  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101757  This subject is available to all undergraduate students who have open electives.  The Making of the 'Aborigines' explores the complex human relations and historical forces that have constructed Australia's indigenous people as 'Aboriginal' and/or 'Torres Strait Islander'. It will involve a critical examination of a range of contemporary social and political issues impacting on and being engaged by Indigenous people. A more comprehensive understanding of the position of Indigenous people in contemporary Australian society will enable students to engage more effectively with Indigenous people.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3084  Theories of Conflict and Violence  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100969  Why do humans kill?  What is the nature of war?  This course is a selection of different established theories offering explanations of human violence and social conflict.  Both theories of individual violence and aggression, and collective conflict are studied to give students a perspective on the forces behind these phenomena.  Theories from politics, philosophy, psychoanalysis, sociobiology, sociology, and cultural studies are introduced to exemplify the classic positions and lines of reasoning.  These are used to question and explain current forms of violence and conflict, and to give students better understanding of the issues behind attempts to forestall, manage or end conflict.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0295 - Theories of Violence and Conflict  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3087  Twentieth Century Australia  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101999  This survey subject provides an overview of major events in Australian political, cultural and social history of the twentieth century. The subject will examine key events such as World Wars and the Great Depression, but will also discuss broader changes that affected Australians, black and white, male and female, rich and poor. In doing so, it will examine some of the ideas and political movements that dominated twentieth century Australia, including class politics, feminism, imperial loyalty, indigenous politics, nationalism, racism and sectarianism.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3014 - Australian History since 1860 - 1920 HUMN 3016 - Australian History since 1920  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3088  Understanding Freedom  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101798  "Understanding Freedom" consists of a close analysis of major theories of freedom from ancient times to the contemporary world. It explores the relation between freedom and imprisonment, freedom and politics, freedom and the everyday, as well as the way that freedom informs the production of culture.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3090  Understanding Power  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101731  This subject aims to explore contemporary understandings of power and its various manifestations in the modern world. Numerous themes are considered including informal and formal mechanisms of power, the uses and abuses of power, resistance, plus various examples of "powered" sites. The subject examines the relation between power, violence and the state. The subject concentrates on a few, influential theorists of power. Particular attention is paid to how power has an impact on the production of culture.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1008 - Understanding Power  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3091  Violence in Everyday Life  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101898  The subject provides an overview of the 'dark side' of human society and culture - violence. It examines how violence shapes, threatens and informs aspects of everyday life at home, work, school, the sports field and the street.  Through a series of structured learning activities students engage with a range of documents and images to explore practices and experiences of violence. The role of institutions like the state, churches and sporting bodies in regulating violence will be considered. Students will gain skills in understanding the cultural milieu of marginal groups, languages of power and the emotions of excitement, fear and terror produced by acts of violence, skills useful for effective functioning in the workplace and family. The subject provides skills for honours level research in social and cultural analysis, law and legal studies, criminology, and history and political thought.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3092  WWII in Asia and the Pacific  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101830  This subject provides inquiry into the origins, course, and aftermath of WWII in Asia and the Pacific. We will ask why Japan and China went to war with each other in the 1930s; we will also seek understanding of why and how that war came to include the United States, Britain, the Soviet Union, the Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand, and practically all of Asia. We will examine the atomic attacks against Hiroshima and Nagasaki: Was the bomb a necessary evil? Or could/should the US have avoided using the bomb?  We will also look intensively at post-WWII Asia. How did two wartime allies - the US and the Soviet Union - become bitter enemies within months of the war's end? Why did China descend into civil war? What was the war in Korea all about? Were wars of independence throughout SE Asia unavoidable? How was it that Japan escaped much of this postwar misery?Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3093  War  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102423  Have you ever wondered what war is good for? Edwin Starr thought it was good for "absolutely nothing." This subject will take you on an intellectual journey, around the globe and across history, as you reach your own answer to this question. You will evaluate the norms associated with war as well as the experiences of warriors from ancient through modern times. You will assess the role of militias, armies, navies, and air forces in the broad sweep of history. You will consider nuclear weaponry, terrorism, guerrilla warfare, just war theory, as well as anti-war movements.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 2059 - War  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3094  War and Society in the Twentieth Century  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101993  This subject explores the social and cultural history of warfare in the twentieth century, with a particular emphasis on the experience of 'ordinary' men and women during the First and Second World Wars. Drawing on case studies and scholarship from Australia, Britain and the United States, students will examine a diverse range of topics and themes, including the politics of gender, class and race in wartime.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2060 - War and Society 20th Century Australia  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3096  What is the Human?  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101010  This subject examines theories of human nature from a variety of historical and disciplinary perspectives. It engages with, and encourages the student to evaluate, conceptions of the human - some of which have had wide currency in the broader culture and some which have not. The subject also engages the idea of whether a unified conception of human nature is tenable at all.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYC 1283 - What is the Human?  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3098  Genders and sexualities: beyond the binary  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102733  This subject encourages students to critically reflect on how their own identities and experiences of genders and sexualities are shaped by broader social practices that define what is natural and what is normal. The subject focuses on two substantive topics: the body and institutions. Bodies are usually understood through biological explanations of gender and sexuality. However, this subject will consider how the body is shaped by the social discourses and practices through which genders and sexualities are produced. The subject investigates how age, race, class and ability are coded differently in terms of gender and sexuality. Institutions - families, schools, workplaces and religions - will be studied as sites where genders and sexualities may be observed but also produced and negotiated.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3100  Social Sciences International Placement (1): Preparation for Placement  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102723  This subject is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills required to successfully undertake a placement abroad, or in the case of those students who need to undertake a local placement, an organisation in Australia that is focused on international development. To this end, to prepare students for HUMN 3101 Social Sciences International Placement (II) the subject examines issues of sustainability and the political and ethical dimensions of volunteering, development and/or fieldwork.  It interrogates the rise of volunteering and learning for development abroad experiences, and provides opportunities for students to reflect on their own part in this growth 'industry'.  Workshops and online activities will cover practical topics such as health and wellbeing, and living and working in development contexts.  They will also provide students with opportunity to learn more about their placement country and/or organisation and to begin developing skills in intercultural communication and interaction, ethnographic observation and reflexivity.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in course 1733 must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and BEHV 1021 The Individual in Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and CULT 2005 Ethics in the Social Sciences and HUMN 2049 Social Research Methods PLUS one of the following Advanced core units BUSM 1016 Leadership in a Complex World Or DESN 2002 Creativity Innovation and Design Thinking Or BEHV 2007 Internship and Community Engagement Or CULT 3011 Ethical LeadershipStudents enrolled in courses 1664 and 6030 must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and SPRT 2011 Sustainability Tourism and Place and CULT 3015 Heritage and Tourism and CULT 3016 Indigenous Cultures A Global PerspectiveStudents enrolled in all other courses must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and BEHV 1021 The Individual in Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and CULT 2005 Ethics in the Social Sciences and HUMN 2049 Social Research Methods  Co-requisite(s): HUMN 3101  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3101  Social Sciences International Placement (II): Placement  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102724  This subject provides students with the opportunity to apply skills and knowledge acquired during the first two years of their degree to a 'real world' setting. Students will undertake a 14 week internationally focused placement with organisations in, for example, the community, not-for-profit or government sectors. The subject coordinator will partner students with an international organisation, and together with the placement host(s) will jointly supervise the student. The work that students undertake during placement will vary, but may include: community visits, community consultation, development of educational programs, policy evaluation, research and report writing. Relevant activities may also be undertaken at another university in the placement country. The work placement will provide students with invaluable experience working in social sciences related fields in cross-cultural contexts. Prior to commencing the placement, students are required to complete pre-placement coursework (in co-requisite subject HUMN 3100 Social Sciences International Placement (I)).  On return from placement the experience will be rounded out with the completion of HUMN 3102 Social Sciences International Placement (III). Students are required to complete a Working with Children Check, and medical clearance may also be required to undertake placement in a developing country, along with a Working With Children check for certain organisations.  Those students unable to undertake an internationally based placement for health or personal reasons should contact the Subject Coordinator before enrolment in this subject to discuss available options for being placed locally.  Students should also note that NSW Health facilities have further, specific requirements, and should seek advice from the Subject Coordinator.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in course 1733 must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and BEHV 1021 The Individual in Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and CULT 2005 Ethics in the Social Sciences and HUMN 2049 Social Research Methods plus one of the following Advanced core units BUSM 1016 Leadership in a Complex World or DESN 2002 Creativity Innovation and Design Thinking or BEHV 2007 Internship and Community Engagement or CULT 3011 Ethical LeadershipStudents enrolled in courses 1664 and 6030 must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and SPRT 2011 Sustainability Tourism and Place and CULT 3015 Heritage and Tourism and CULT 3016 Indigenous Cultures A Global PerspectiveStudents enrolled in all other courses must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and BEHV 1021 The Individual in Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and CULT 2005 Ethics in the Social Sciences and HUMN 2049 Social Research Methods  Co-requisite(s): HUMN 3100  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3102  Social Sciences International Placement (III): Post-placement Reflections  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102725  This subject is the final component of the Social Sciences International Placement.  Facilitated by the subject coordinators the subject comprises a series of workshops and assessments, which will provide opportunities for students to debrief and reflect critically on their placement experience.  Assessments and workshops are designed so that students learn how to convey newly acquired skills, perspectives and life choices in different settings (classroom; job interviews and applications), and to apply the placement experience in immediate and life-long educational, professional and personal endeavours. For those students who have undertaken a placement overseas, the subject is also designed to encourage reintegration into their home culture. Specifically, assessments and workshops are designed so that students intentionally process and analyse the layered meanings of their time spent abroad, and the feelings and experiences of coming 'home'.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in course 1733 must complete the following pre-requisites CULT 1017 Understanding Society and BEHV 1021 The Individual in Society and CULT 1020 Working with Communities and HUMN 1041 People Place and Social Difference and CULT 2005 Ethics in the Social Sciences and HUMN 2049 Social Research Methods plus one of the following Advanced core units BUSM 1016 Leadership in a Complex World or DESN 2002 Creativity Innovation and Design Thinking or BEHV 2007 Internship and Community Engagement or CULT 3011 Ethical Leadership  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3103  Group Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102741  This subject is designed to extend the employability, professional skills and networks of students. Every year, a range of options will be offered to students. These may involve activities as diverse as group research projects with existing available databases; simulation projects with ‘real world’ problems determined in partnership with an external agency or internal Western organisational subject; the development of a small-scale event that services a School objective and a community need; or a disciplinary  or inter-disciplinary capstone project. The common objective is the development of students’ skills in collaboration and team work through a focus on authentic tasks and problem-solving.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3104  Historical Methodologies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102766  The subject is an overview of Western historical thought and writing, from Herodotus to Foucault, demonstrating different approaches to historical knowledge. We examine some of the many ideas and sources that have influenced historical writing as well as some of the enduring questions, such as 'What is historical truth?' and 'Can history ever be objective?' Our exploration will include both close reading of texts and more 'hands-on' exercises to gain insight into different historical methodologies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Any two of the following subjects - HUMN 1054 ORHUMN 1059 ORHUMN 1039 ORHUMN 2042 ORHUMN 2067  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3083 - Theories and Methods of History  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3105  History of Religion  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102734  This subject will investigate 'religion' as an object of historical study. Students will consider a variety of approaches to historical considerations about beliefs, scriptures, and rituals that have come to be defined as religion, as well as those that have not. The subject will examine the development of various religious traditions from its foundation to its present state by exploring them in light of their cultural, political, and social context.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3106  Study Tours  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102742  This subject provides students with opportunities outside the usual classroom experience. It is designed particularly for students who (1) enrol in short course study tours and/or (2) take a placement with an international or domestic workplace. A number of WSU partners offer short course study programs either internationally or domestically. The study tours offer an opportunity to spend up to three weeks off campus and experience real-life settings that allow for application of academic knowledge and understanding of on-the-spot discoveries.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3053 - International Study Tours  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3107  Labour and Culture  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102781  In recent history, social, economic, political and technological forces have produced profound changes to work and working life, undermining the stability of jobs and vocational skills, and disrupting and fragmenting career structures. This subject traces 1) the history of work, from pre-industrial to post-industrial times, 2) the rise of the factory system, 'Fordism' and scientific management of production, 3) the modern idea and experience of leisure and recreation as an adjunct to wage labour, and, in post-Fordist times, of culture and creativity as a central part of work, 4) the influence of technology on skills, and the rise of the 'knowledge economy' in the digital era, 5) the role of worker organisations in securing and protecting conditions of work.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3108  We Are The University: Students Co-creating Change  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102791  This project-based subject offers students a chance to learn, negotiate and practise change-making skills in, and for, our University, Western Sydney University. At the heart of this subject is student partnership, curriculum co-creation, and an invitation for students to be involved in improving the educational experience at Western. Working in groups and alongside a university mentor, students will have an opportunity to contribute genuine solutions to an authentic education challenge that might be (a) commissioned by senior staff of the University; (b) intended to support students' aspirations to become a student leader; or (c) offers students a chance to undertake a project that advances their existing student leader or representative role. By choosing this elective subject, students not only receive credit for the partnership work they undertake, the University will have a new way of involving students in its decision-making processes. This is a subject intended to sharpen students' analytical skill-set and provide a taste of what it's like to operate as a change-maker inside a large and complex institution. This subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3109  Catastrophe: The Environmental History of the Ancient World  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102835  This subject examines past human interactions with the environment with its primary focus on the ancient Mediterranean and Near East between 2000 BC to 1600 AD. Case studies include Sumer, the lost civilisations of the Sahara, Egypt, Greece, Rome, the Maya and later European colonial empires. Students will assess, evaluate and synthesize data drawn from environmental history to analyse how the limits of natural resources constrain civilisations. The subject asks how catastrophic collapse of civilisations informs the sustainability of our own societies. Key topics will be soil fertility, deforestation, desertification, and climate change from ancient times to the Anthropocene.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3020 -  Catastrophe The Environmental History of the Ancient and Modern World  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3111  History of the People's Republic of China  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102842  This subject is concerned with the historical complexities during the period between the establishment of the People's Republic in 1949 and up to the present day. It will equally focus on the Mao Zedong era (1949-1976) and on the post-1976 period, which saw the adoption and implementation of an "open-door" policy, and the launch of the "Four Modernisations". Due attention will also be paid to the Xi Jinping era (2012-present). We will explore a wide range of social and political issues that have a bearing on China's future as a potential world leader in the twenty-first century.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3074 - Social and Political Developments in Contemporary China  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3112  Indigenous Methodologies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102850  This subject provides an introduction to Indigenous research methodologies. It will develop the conceptual and theoretical knowledge of Indigenist, decolonial and anti-racist research methodologies to research with Indigenous peoples, and research that is of significance to Indigenous Australians. The subject also addresses ethical considerations and processes providing students with the skills and knowledge to engage in ethical research praxis.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 1060  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3113  Migration and Social Change  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102862  This subject will address the key concepts and issues of migration particular to settler colonies like Australia as well as nations in Europe and the Asia Pacific. It will consider the lives of first and second generation migrants and the spaces they inhabit, that is, rapidly growing suburbs and urban fringes. Attention will be paid to how migrant identities intersect with their class, gender and other categories. This includes a close examination of how their livelihoods are impacted by increasing gentrification, health and environmental crises, and intensified forms of border control and anti-immigration sentiment. Finally, the subject will encourage student to understand the contemporary influences such as solidarity movements and online cultures that impact our understanding of migration and prompt social change.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3085 - Transnational Migration HUMN 3086 - Transnationalism and Migration  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3114  Changemakers and Entrepreneurship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800243  This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. The subject supports students to successfully navigate innovation and entrepreneurship journeys by pushing boundaries, experimenting, learning from mistakes, and adapting to find new ways of approaching technical and social problems. In this subject, students will develop knowledge and skills in pitching and communicating solutions, creating material for crowdsourcing platforms and collaborating in multi-disciplinary teams to design solutions to contemporary problems affecting both local and global communities.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 3052 - Innovation Lab  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3115  Medieval Europe from the Fall of the Roman Empire to the Reformation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102861  This subject is an introductory survey of European history from the Middle Ages to the Early Modern period. It begins chronologically with the fall of the Roman Empire, and concludes with the Protestant Reformation. Students will be introduced to three core themes. The first is the gradual emergence of a distinction between church and state in the Christian west, the second is the feudal organization of medieval societies, and the third is the development of intellectual life, including the origin of universities, natural law, and the Renaissance. Students will develop their knowledge as well as their skills in interpreting a variety of primary sources, including Medieval epic, theology, Renaissance art, political tracts, and archival documents including the Domesday book.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3116  Emergency and Disaster Management  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Over the last five decades, the world has experienced historically significant disasters, including natural (e.g. earthquake and tsunami), human-induced (wars or ethnic conflicts) and climate impacts, requiring concerted international efforts to support populations at risk. This subject explores the causes and consequences of disasters and the application of international guidelines which govern humanitarian responses. It examines theoretical approaches to disaster management, its geo-political dimensions, and the community-led Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) programs that increasingly drive local preparedness. Real-world case studies engage students in critical thinking and improve their knowledge of the humanitarian charter and core humanitarian standards, and the practical challenges of interagency coordination in emergencies.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2017 - Complex Emergencies and International Guidelines  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3117  Place-Making for Tourism and the Cultural Economies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The subject will explore the strategic use of practices and institutions like the arts, heritage, architecture and museums to enhance and attract creative economic activities. Theories that assist in framing and explaining these changes are presented and debated alongside exemplar and emerging case studies to encourage the analysis of space, culture and economic practice in contemporary contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 3014 - Heritage Interpretation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3118  Indigenous Cultures: A Global Perspective  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Drawing on global case studies, this subject aims to introduce students to some of the pressing socio-cultural issues facing indigenous peoples around the world.  The subject examines the complex relationships between globalisation, colonialism and post-colonialism and contemporary indigenous cultures and identities.  It draws attention to the way in which issues of representation, cultural autonomy, cultural commodification, development and human rights play out with respect to indigenous peoples’ lives.  More specifically, the subject interrogates the power relations and politics central to many of these issues and examines the nature of contemporary indigenous and non-indigenous interactions, particularly in the contexts of tourism and heritage, the cultural industries, the environment, development and urbanisation.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 3016 - Indigenous Cultures A Global Perspective  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3119  Emergency Field Operations: Supply Management and Logistics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject will equip students with the required skills to assess organisational capacity to respond to disasters and other complex humanitarian emergencies. The subject will cover logistical frameworks and tools for planning, the sustainable deployment of goods and services, and monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of local and global supply chains.  It will discuss the challenges, ethical, and political dimensions of supply chains and contingency plans in emergency and disaster response contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 2022 - Emergency Field Operations Supply Management and Logistics  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 3120  AI and Society  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  AI is no longer only a topic of science fiction fantasy. It now answers questions, writes essays and code, manages customer service inquiries, and generates images, music and film. Its arrival poses new and critical questions about how technology impacts society. What does the effortless production of media mean for the future of education, work, culture, and governance? Does AI hold promise for key global challenges, from climate change to geopolitical instability? Or will it lead to rising inequality, alienation and corporate control? Trained on accumulations of media on the Internet, what are its effects on forms of social difference – gender, class, race, indigeneity, sexuality, disability? Students will develop critical literacy skills through introductions to the history, technical foundations, and current debates surrounding AI. The subject will involve a practice-based generative AI project, exploring issues of bias, plagiarism, copyright, ethics, misinformation and decision-making.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 4001  Researcher Development 1: Reading ,Writing, and the Business of Research  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800218  Research is the process of using knowledge to generate new understandings of the world. Research is also a social enterprise, with communities and norms of behaviour, and is an industry that is shaped by numerous cultural and economic forces. Taking a holistic approach that includes general research skill development, this subject focuses on four main topics: (1) critical reading, (2) effective writing, (3) research as a professional industry, and (4) the ethics of stewardship and personal responsibility. The subject equips students with vital skills that underpin their discipline-specific learning, and lays the ground for their development as professional researchers.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 4009 - Research Design 1 Theories of Enquiry  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 4002  Researcher Development 2: Proposing and Justifying Research  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800220  An essential skill required by researchers is the ability to propose research and justify it in a persuasive manner. Through interactive workshops, Researcher Development 2 helps students develop and refine a research proposal. The subject includes workshops on research ethics that will help students articulate the significance and relevance of their work and will assist those requiring ethics clearance. The written proposal is defended through the oral Presentation of Proposal (POP). After successful completion of this subject, students will have demonstrated an ability to design and justify a research project in their discipline.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 4001  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 4010 - Research Design 2 Practices of Research  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 4003  Writing Beyond the Academy: Knowledge Translation and Public Audience Communication  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800219  It is now more important than ever for researchers to explain their research to the public. Although it can be challenging to translate specialist knowledge for non-specialist readers, this is the skill students will receive training for in Writing Beyond the Academy. By following the model of The Conversation, a widely popular knowledge translation platform, students will learn the principles of public audience writing, how to pitch to an editor and how to work with their feedback, and produce their own public audience essay.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 4012 - Research Literacies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 4006  Honours Thesis Part Time 2  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101807  This unit is the second unit of the research project and thesis of the BSS Honours program and consists of a research project designed and implemented under the direction of an academic supervisor and research mentor. It is only available to students who have been accepted into the honours programmes for the following Bachelors degrees - Community Welfare, Policing, Social Science and Tourism Management.  This unit is the culmination of studies for students who have completed their undergraduate degree and provides substantial training in research.  Under staff supervision, students choose the particular topic for their research, design their own programme of research , perform the research and analyse the results.  The production of a thesis is at the end of this process. Students describe the rationale for their topic, their research programme, ethical issues, results and their conclusions.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 4008  Honours Thesis Part Time 4  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101809  This unit is the fourth unit of the research project and thesis of the BSS Honours program and consists of a research project designed and implemented under the direction of an academic supervisor and research mentor. It is only available to students who have been accepted into the honours programmes for the following Bachelors degrees - Community Welfare, Policing, Social Science and Tourism Management.  This unit is the culmination of studies for students who have completed their undergraduate degree and provides substantial training in research.  Under staff supervision, students choose the particular topic for their research, design their own programme of research , perform the research and analyse the results.  The production of a thesis is at the end of this process. Students describe the rationale for their topic, their research programme, ethical issues, results and their conclusions.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 5001  Borders, Mobilities and Justice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  What kinds of illegal activities occur between and across borders? What do governments mean when they refer to “illegal immigrants”? This subject has a critical human security focus that aims to distinguish between illegal activity across borders and highly politicised narratives around immigration and asylum seeking. By examining the tensions between security, order and justice, the subject will focus on the increased demand for immigration and resettlement in a world marked by political unrest, global pandemics, and climate change. As such, students will critically examine notions of human mobility and the physical, legal and discursive construction of borders, and what that means pre and post-immigration for certain segments of the global population. These issues will be explored through global perspectives and with an interdisciplinary focus, emphasizing the impact of global issues on human lives. One of the core aims of this subject is to give students the ability to critically appraise how current domestic and international practices deployed by governments can perpetuate humanitarian and security crises, as well as the ever-increasing inequality between rich and poor nations. By the end of this subject, students will be able to make theoretically informed recommendations across rapidly changing and comparative national and political contexts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 6001  Transnational Crime and Human Security Threat  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Transnational crime generates serious individual and collective social harm, and poses human security threats at national, regional and international levels. It challenges states, exploits individuals, compromises economies and the environment, destroys civil society, and ultimately weakens democracy. This subject begins by assessing the concepts and definitions of transnational crime. Instead of offering a general overview of transnational crime, this subject focuses on various types of transnational crime and examines their emergence, impact, and control from a human security perspective, by examining how globalisation affects criminal organisations. While considering the security threat that transnational crime and criminal organisations pose at national and global levels, this subject aims to equip students with a holistic understanding of transnational crime beyond conventional criminological perspectives, hence nurturing students’ ability to develop just and human security focused policies to prevent and control transnational crime.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7047 - Transnational Crime  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7001  Advanced Social Research Methods  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102177  Students in Advanced Social Research Methods concentrate on methods for collecting and analysing research data. The subject builds on the key research concepts established in 102175 Research in the Social Sciences, in particular research methodology. Advanced Social Research Methods provides students with an overview of research design and the methods for collecting and analysing research data within the broad spectrum of the social sciences. This includes purposes, strengths and limitations and applications to professional domains and/or discipline contexts. Students attend in-depth workshops on specific methods offered by practicing researchers to evaluate the merits of different research methods.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7036  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7002  Applied Imagination  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101651  This subject asks students to reflect upon imagination and its use in research, inquiry, and social action. It challenges students to develop an applied understanding of imagination in the development of creative responses to personal and social concerns. Underlying this exploration is a challenge to students to reflect upon the relationship between form, content and communication, objectivity and subjectivity, arts theory and practice, the writer, performer, artist and educator. The subject considers mediums for expression and communication; imagination as an analytical tool, and imagination as a means for understanding, communicating and enabling intentions and outcomes.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7003  Applied Innovation and Entrepreneurship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800211  Entrepreneurial & innovative skills are more important than ever for today's graduates where applying creativity to drive commercial outcomes is commonplace both for those working inside organisations and those developing their own business. This subject, based on the fundamental principle of 'doing', proposes to deliver principles and content through a highly applied approach. This is a subject that teaches entrepreneurship in a fundamentally different way to the traditional course structures.  The subject is delivered through Western Sydney University's highly successful "Launch Pad Innovation Centre" which provides both Tech Start-up and SME business support. This subject maximises the opportunity for real-world application by delivering through a case study driven approach and utilising a mix of presenters including: academia, business mentors, industry specialists from Launch Pad partners such as KPMG, NAB and government industry representatives, and actual start-up and SME business owners as guest lecturers.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7038 ANDHUMN 7005 ANDHUMN 7026 ANDHUMN 7037  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7004  Australian Cultural Policy and Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102542  Understanding of Australia's cultural identity is essential for those who intend to engage in its promotion or in the management of cultural exchanges between Australia and other countries.  This subject will describe the main features of Australian cultures including Indigenous culture, Western culture as inherited through settlement from Britain and elsewhere, and of multiculturalism arising from recent migration patterns.  Students will study the history and current status of Australia's political institutions, its important international alliances and treaties, and the development of its independent foreign policy.  An introduction will be given to Australia's major cultural management organisations and arts institutions (including invited guest speakers).Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7005  Career and Personal Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800198  A key skill in becoming a professional researcher is learning how to manage your career options. Fundamental aspects of this include making strategic choices regarding research focus and employment directions, learning to build professional networks both locally and internationally, and undertaking self-directed learning to continually expand your abilities and knowledge. This subject is designed to provide a structured approach to these aspects of career planning, and will include collaborative workshops where experienced researchers join the group to discuss the art of navigating around external constraints while forging your own path forward. As an early application of these principles, the subject involves completion of your Confirmation of Candidature proposal.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7006  China Culture Study  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102544  This subject provides students with opportunities outside the usual classroom experience. The subject uses knowledge acquired previously in the subject Chinese Cultural Policy and Practice and offers a real life application of this knowledge within a Chinese cultural context. Students will be required to travel to China for two to three weeks during their inter session break. While in China, they will visit important cultural and academic institutions and keep a daily diary of this experience.   On their return to Australia students will be finalising assessment tasks required as part of this subject.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7007  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7007  Chinese Cultural Policy and Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102541  China's relationship with Australia and the rest of the world is critical to Australia's future success.  This subject offers a broad introduction to Chinese society, history and politics and will cover in more detail cultural developments, including the creative arts such as music, literature, visual arts and film, together with popular arts and the digital transformation of media and the arts.  An outline of Chinese aesthetic theories, cultural policies and the work of critics will be presented.  The roles of art institutions such as museums, galleries, performance companies and publishers will be considered, together with agencies involved in international cultural exchange such as translators, censors and copyright agencies.  The study of the interplay of Chinese language, thought and culture will be an integral part of this subject. A case study of a particular cultural medium may be presented by an invited guest speaker.  This subject may be further developed through the China Culture Study subject which is an alternate subject within the Master of Chinese Cultural Relations course.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7009  Critical and Creative Enquiry  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102628  This subject is designed to extend students' capacity to undertake critical and creative research in the arts therapies. Students will have the opportunity to work together and extend each other's work while undertaking a small research project that does not involve human research subjects.  The theories and ethics of difference and diversity will be central to the process of enquiry. This includes formulation of research questions or problems, the choice and articulation of appropriate methodologies; data gathering and analysis; and the preparation of a research report.  Students will learn to systematically question the dominant assumptions of their field and generate alternatives to a tendency for practitioner research to reproduce 'the same'.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): WELF 7008 ORHUMN 7036  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7025 -  Integrated Project LGYA 7525 -  Integrating Theory Research and Practice  Incompatible Subjects: HUMN 7010 -  Critical and Creative Enquiry WELF 7020 -  Practising Research and Researching Practice  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7011  Cultural Diplomacy and Soft Power  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102543  This subject provides an introduction to key topics and debates in diplomacy and international relations.  Relationships with other governments depend on diplomacy, which has been defined as the art of persuasion.  Diplomatic modes, including those based on universalist values and those based on pragmatic self-interest will be considered and tested in the context of contemporary bilateral, regional and multilateral relations. The concepts of soft power and international public relations will be considered in the light of current cultural diplomacy campaigns, and tested through simulated role-play.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7012  Cyber Justice (PG)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102424  This subject explores the evolving relationship between digital technology, justice and crime. How are the temptations and risks associated with harmful or illicit behaviour being re-shaped by information and communication technologies, by social media and the computer networks that increasingly hold organisations together?  Cyber crime is typically understood as use of information and communication technologies to assist in the commission of other crimes, actions that target computer networks or software, or new offences that could only exist with the technology. Cyber justice meanwhile emphasises the use of information and communication technologies to improve access to justice and the efficiency of justice procedures, not just to deal with cyber crime. How does the law keep up with the emergence of new crimes and technology-enhanced versions of old ones, and how do forensic investigators and analysts contribute to this process?  The subject examines how justice processes and spaces, as well as criminal networks and strategies, are being reimagined to take advantage of the new technologies.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7013  Debates in Global Interactions  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102341  The subject considers the history of the ways that different regions of humanity have interacted, since 1400. The subject will consider such topics as: ethnic-centrism (how to address it in historical and political knowledge?); the era of 'Pan Asia' (what does the rise of China and India mean for historical and political studies?); the prominence of 'nation' in historical knowledge (how to treat human history as 'global'?); the relationship of ethno-nationalism to globalization; the periodization of global history (turning points in the emergence of a global humanity); the determinants of difference and commonality in human history; the characteristics of 'empires'; the natural limits of humanity.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7015  Digital Humanities Research Methods (PG)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102426  This subject investigates the methodological possibilities of digital technologies for interdisciplinary humanities and social sciences research. It covers several major digital research methods, exploring previous applications and examining their orientations and implications. Digital research methods and applications may include digitisation, online curation, visualisation, network analysis, geographical information systems, data mining and simulation. In the context of these, the subject will probe histories of technology and knowledge production, the evolution of digital texts and practices, and issues in contemporary culture such as digital design, gamification, virtual identity, and digital rights.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7017  Ecopedagogies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102157  In simplest terms, ecopedagogies is teaching and learning in partnership with Nature. This interdisciplinary subject examines place-based theory and outdoor-experiential education. Research has repeatedly shown that outdoor experiential learning promotes health, well-being, cognitive advancement, growth and development for children, youth and adults. Correspondingly, the importance of ecopedagogies in this historical era cannot be underestimated. The precariousness of human/nature interrelationships compels us to explore new ways of learning and knowing and ecopedagogies provides new ways of connecting with the natural world. Further insight is gained through engaging with First Peoples' knowledge systems through the conceptualisation of 'country' and relational frameworks.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7018  Ecopsychology and Cultural Change  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101652  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. Ecopsychology is concerned with the relationship between human consciousness, human actions and environmental issues. It seeks to understand the sources, both phenomenological and socio-cultural, of the disjuncture between nature and psyche and to develop possibilities for personal and cultural re-connection and healing. Through applying experiential methods, critical inquiry and engagement with ecopsychological writings, students develop their awareness of "self", "nature", "culture" and explore the dynamics between them. The subject incorporates perspectives on ecological identity, ecospirituality and sense of place as ways of re-imagining the human-nature relationship and effecting ecologically-oriented change.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7019  International Disaster Management  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102575  This subject uses comparative analysis of different disaster responses to provide students with the skills and knowledge required to play a role in future emergency and disaster management. Students will gain critical understanding of key international frameworks and standards that shape humanitarian responses, the motivations of aid donors and humanitarian NGOs and the increasing efforts to empower local communities with Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) and response capabilities. Drawing on theoretical models of disaster management and planning, students work to resolve practical challenges of field-level humanitarian response while balancing resource constraints and the needs of multiple stakeholder groups.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7021  Fieldwork in Complex and Hostile Places  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800213  Working overseas is demanding and poses unique research challenges as well as risks to personal security and safety. This seven-day intensive subject teaches a range of applied research approaches, field skills, techniques and technologies to prepare students for operating safely overseas. The immersive scenario-based role-play learning is delivered at an off-site location. Drawing on United Nations accredited curriculum, the subject equips students with an appreciation for the major methodological, ethical, legal, logistical and personal challenges they are likely to confront when working 'in the field.' The subject is of special relevance to students seeking employment in Government and NGO sectors.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7022  Global Criminology and Human Rights  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102200  Global criminology is concerned with the process of respecting and fostering ideals of justice, the rule of law and human rights in an expanding range of transnational and domestic locations. These include stable, divided and post-conflict societies that are variously dealing with issues of discrimination, exploitation, insecurity and violence via international agreements, judicial and political means. The global development of justice initiatives has challenged the traditional criminological concern with individual offenders prosecuted by the sovereign nation state acting on behalf of a sole victim. In this subject students will gain a critical understanding of theories and concepts of global criminology, detail of the key aspects and uses of international criminal law, and the potential of alternative modes of attaining social justice. Case studies from around the globe will be analysed along with an emphasis placed on assessing the significance of issues, rights and justice reforms in developing regions.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7023  Global Health, Migration and Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102576  This subject introduces students to the intersection between global health, human migration and economic development. Students are introduced to international efforts to manage and support better health for all populations, particularly those under stress through civil conflict or epidemic. Through the lens of migration theories, the course will examine why and how people migrate, the dynamisms and complexities of migrants' settlement in their new environment, the socio-economic and political dimensions of forced migration and its consequences, and the relationship between voluntary migration and economic and development goals at regional, national and international level.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7024  Humanitarian and Development Agendas and Progress  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102577  This subject enables students to map the emergence of international humanitarian and development agencies from the mid-20th century to the modern day. Students will consider and asses international efforts to end poverty, such as the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the Rome Declaration and Plan of Action on World Food security, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A particular emphasis is placed on developing the skills to gauge the accountability and ethical approaches of humanitarian actors and agencies in global development.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7026  Knowledge Translation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800199  Knowledge translation looks at how knowledge created through research can be applied in real world contexts. It takes research from the theoretical stage (i.e. "that's interesting, but so what?") to the applied stage where it can be used to create real impact.  In this subject, we explore the two main processes of knowledge translation - communication and implementation.  This is a highly collaborative subject where the interdisciplinary group meets to engage in general theoretical discussion and practice various knowledge translation activities based on our various fields of research.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7027  Leading Change  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102161  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject explores change and leadership through a range of contexts. In this subject we critically analyse cultural, structural and political dimensions of change in organisations, systems and communities. This subject is grounded in leadership models that feature collaborative and relationship enhancing approaches to enable purposeful change.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7028  Management and Evaluation of Aid Programs  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102578  Evaluation of development aid and relief programs is an instrument for accountability and effective learning in terms of what works, for whom, in what circumstances, and at what cost.   This subject uses critical and practical analyses to provide students with the skills and knowledge required to plan, implement, manage, and evaluate development aid and relief programs. Students are introduced to program planning and management strategies, types of evaluation approaches and their application, and evaluation dissemination utilisation. They gain practical skills to translate evaluation into policy and practiceLevel: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7029  Master of Social Science Thesis  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102040  This is a 40 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (20 credit points in each term). This yearlong subject requires the completion of a research thesis and associated activities. The purpose of this subject is the completion of a research study building on the research subjects so far completed in the core subjects of the Master of Social Science. Students will work with a supervisor to frame, conceptualise, conduct and complete a research study and present a final research thesis.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7036 ANDHUMN 7045  Co-requisite(s): HUMN 7001  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7031  Political Economy of Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101895  The subject introduces students to the main theories and the diverse political economy dimensions of development. It consists of three modules. The first deals with key concepts that interrogate the meaning of development, origins of prosperity and the concepts of poverty, inequality and redistribution, which are contentious in their applications to various groups. The second module examines core issues in the political economy of development, which include globalisation, foreign aid, democracy, conflict and the role of the state.  The last module engages with pertinent case studies focusing on Asia, the Pacific as well as problems with development in the Western world.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7032  Public Health in Complex Emergencies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102574  The health, socio-economic, and political aspects of conflicts and disasters are complex and multidimensional requiring political commitment and coordinated and effective prevention. This has been evident with the rise in extreme weather events, COVID-19 pandemic
and protracted crises. This subject uses critical analyses with a sustainability and gender lens to understand public health responses in emergency situations. Students will be introduced to rapid health assessment protocols in, health priorities, linkages of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) to health outcomes, health inequities and gender disparities and the prevention of public health effects of, complex emergencies.
It provides students with the skills and knowledge required to understand the politics of public health response in emergency situations. They will gain the practical skills to assess and respond to health needs of populations, evaluate the evidence used to inform public health policy and the effectiveness of different decision-making practices in emergency situations.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7034  Research Project in Cultural Exchange  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102545  In this subject you will undertake a research/development project in relation to cultural exchange with China.  This may include professional involvement in a cultural exchange activity and/or a research project on an issue relating to cultural exchange.  The activity will include researching the literature and interpreting this in relation to the chosen task in a research/project report.  There is no class work.  Each student will be supervised by a member of staff in the School of Humanities and Communication Arts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 4010  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7035  Research and Public Policy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800212  Public policy can effect change in society at global, national and local levels. This subject examines public policy and the role of research in its development.  Students will explore, analyse and understand the link between research and public policy, will receive guest lectures from experts in public policy development, and have the opportunity to produce a peer-reviewed public policy paper or article.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7038 ANDHUMN 7005 ANDHUMN 7026 ANDHUMN 7037  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7036  Introduction to Social Research  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102175  This subject provides foundational skills and knowledge for research in the Social Sciences including contemporary research, developments, and applications across a range of professional fields. It introduces key research concepts of epistemology, ethics, theory, and methodology drawing on different study disciplines within the Social Sciences. It provides an overview of research design and methods for collecting and analysing research data including familiarisation with qualitative, quantitative and mixed-methods approaches. The subject explores the processes by which knowledge is created through research and the purposes to which it can be applied in real world settings.

Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: CULT 7005 - Research for Practice  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7037  Researcher Engagement and Impact  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800209  Maximising impact requires strategy. In addition to an extensive relationship-building with external parties as well as a general commitment to knowledge translation, achieving impact also means being strategic with research design from the earliest stages of project planning. Who is your research targeted to? What are the broader social aims of your research? Which individuals and organisations might have a stake in the outcomes of your research? What are the relevant disciplinary, policy, economic, industry, and social contexts for your research? What barriers or opportunities exist within these contexts? What social media and other communication platforms are available for you to transfer knowledge? What types of public communication should you engage in, and at what stages of your research? This subject will explore how to design research projects with such questions in mind, by combining collaborative workshops with assessments tailored specifically to your own circumstances. Whatever stage your research is at, you will have the opportunity to produce output that will feed into your broader impact or engagement objectives.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7038  Researcher Knowledge and Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800197  Researchers must have an in-depth knowledge of their research area and the appropriate methods used, as well as the ability to access and manage large amounts of information.  This subject will provide students with the opportunity develop a range of literacies and cognitive abilities, culminating in the presentation of the student's Early Candidature Plan.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7040  Social Ecology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102152  This subject focuses on learning in the context of social-ecological understanding. It asserts that ecological sustainability is a consequence of the understanding and enactment of social-ecological relationships. In this regard 'social ecology' describes a field of understanding while 'sustainability' describes praxis in a social-ecological context. Both experience and the understanding of experience - learning- are subject matter. This study is undertaken through reference to ecological systems of understandings in the context of challenges to that understanding. It is grounded in reference to learning, change, creativity, culture, politics and the physical environment. The subject introduces key theorists and invites students to examine their personal relationship to social-ecological learning.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7039 - Researching Social Ecology  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7041  Social Research in the Digital World  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102194  This subject provides a critical introduction to the opportunities and challenges of digital social research as well as the theoretical, methodological, and ethical implications of carrying out research in and on the digital. The social web provides researchers both with a tool and an environment to explore the intricacies of everyday life. In this subject, students will be immersed in online environments to further understand the theoretical, methodological and ethical issues of social research in the digital world. Through such activities, students participate as active digital researchers in online social science spaces to result in a professional online web presence and an in depth understanding of current and future research trends in digital social research.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7044  Theories of Difference and Diversity  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102176  This subject will introduce students at post-graduate level to contemporary theories and concepts of difference and diversity. The subject will particularly examine feminism, post-structuralism, new materialism, queer theory and critical realism. It will also address specific concepts such as inequality, human rights, freedom and marginalisation. It will apply these theories and concepts to investigations of contemporary social issues and debates related to race, disability, ethnicity, sexuality, gender and other categories of individual identity and collective belonging. The subject will provide a strong theoretical base to the work that students have undertaken in the subject Theories for Critical Practice, and inform the work to be undertaken in the other subjects in this specialisation.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7045  Theories of the Social  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102179  This subject examines the notions that humans are intrinsically social beings who are at once products of and producers of their own circumstances. By providing an overview and critical engagement with a wide array of social theories, the subject explores key aspects of human society including structure and agency; knowledge and power relations; culture and identity; class, economy and consumption; self, society and the public sphere; social change and social justice. Students consider the social, political and discursive processes through which theories are made and applied, and how theories may both limit and create possibilities for research and practice. Throughout the subject students will be encouraged to use critical social theory to not only expose and analyse social systems but also to engage in reflection about how theoretical perspectives can inform practices of change.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7043 - Theories for Critical Practice HUMN 7050 Theories of the Social  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7047  Transnational Crime  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102198  In 2023 this subject is replaced by HUMN 6001 Transnational Crime and Human Security Threat. In traditional criminology crimes have been understood as acts that breach the criminal code of a given nation state. By contrast, transnational crimes are defined as violations of law that embrace more than one nation in their planning, operation or impact. These crimes often have a much broader (though often veiled) relation to serious individual and collective social harm and can be especially difficult to prevent or investigate and prosecute. Students will be expected to understand the global and regional developments that foster transnational crime, its range and security impacts, and international agreements and conventions as well the new forms of policing developed to counter it.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7048  Understanding Race  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102601  What is race? What is racism? How are they related? Why do they continue to shape social, political and economic relations well after the biological concept of race was disproven? What are the links between race and colonialism and in Australia particularly, the invasion and settlement of Aboriginal land? How is race related to property? How do ideas of race become embedded in state institutions and why do they continue to shape disadvantage and inequality? Though race develops differently in different contexts, it is best thought about through relational readings that draw out both the differences but also the similarities between places and times. This subject will draw on race critical and decolonial texts to focus on race as a modern idea that is shaped in the contexts of colonialism, slavery, and persists in post-immigration multicultural societies.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7049  Violence, Culture and Criminal Justice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102199  In recent decades, a new wave of racial, ethnic and religious violence and terrorism has been linked to rapid patterns of globalisation and tensions over group and national identities. Specific knowledge about violence and considerations about its real extent, causes and cultural meanings remain uncertain. Yet there is evidence of a recent general decline in violence with a significant role for legal and quasi-legal bodies for acknowledging injury, punishing previously 'deniable' violence and promoting reconciliation. Seminar topics in this course will include the global patterns and forms of violence; individual versus societal and historical explanations; biology, evolution and culture; gender, race and inequality; hatred, genocide, collective identity and psychoanalysis; the role of states and law in countering and condoning interpersonal and collective violence; debates about victimhood and the cultural symbols of violence and its memorialisation.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7051  How to Write History  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102661  This subject introduces students to specific styles of historical methodology, considering how each of these styles alter the kinds of questions historians ask, how they select their sources, and how they account for the differences between past and present. Students undertake an independent, guided Applied Project on a historical methodology relevant to their intended thesis project.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7054  Social Science Research Project  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102817  This subject requires students to design, plan and manage a research project using existing literature and/or data sets. Students will engage critically and analytically with the literature in the field, and undertake research to evaluate and report on research findings. Under the guidance of an academic supervisor students will develop a research question, conduct a systematic review of literature/write a case study/work on an existing dataset, and write a thesis on a topic related to the social sciences. Through this process, students will gain insight into the various components of the research process. Further, they will demonstrate an ability to identify issues, synthesise salient information, and articulate original ideas to make a practical contribution to the existing body of knowledge relevant to the social sciences.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7052 - Humanitarian and Development Research Project  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7055  Social Science Training Placement  (40 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102818  This subject encompasses a three-month training placement (approximately 420 hours) which is designed to consolidate knowledge and skills in the area of contemporary humanitarian and development aid or in the overlapping arenas of international criminological issues such as trafficking, criminalisation and victimisation or other fields in the social sciences. Students will design, plan, implement and report their findings on a project or projects, during a placement with a domestic or international organisation in the community, the not-for-profit, or government sectors. Students will be required to undertake a specific, focused project or projects relevant to the host organisation's needs, as an opportunity to apply the skills, training and knowledge acquired through coursework in the Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies or the Master of International Criminology programs or other master's programs in social science related disciplines.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7053 - Humanitarian and Development Training Placement  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7056  Grant Proposals and Applications  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800226  Early career researchers engage in an exceedingly dynamic and competitive research and academic environment. They are expected to possess skills to successfully develop research projects, identify appropriate funding opportunities and communicate their knowledge by applying for research funding in line with their program of research.  In this elective subject students will develop the knowledge and skills required to draft complex grant applications - using a framework that includes research design, hypotheses, research questions, and results - while communicating information in an accurate but accessible manner.  Students will develop and refine their ideas for future research funding based on their knowledge gained across all the GCREDI subjects as well as their research studies. Students will communicate those ideas in practice through development of grant writing skills relevant to funding opportunities associated with their chosen career paths.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7038 ANDHUMN 7005 ANDHUMN 7026 ANDHUMN 7037  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 7057  Thirty-Day Research Placement  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800227  In this experiential learning subject, Graduate Certificate in Researcher Engagement, Development and Impact (GCREDI) students undertake a 30-day internship placement to experience current research practice, to develop professional networks, and to demonstrate and strengthen the transferable, professional and technical research skills they have developed through the GCREDI course and their HDR candidature.  Completion of an internship gives research candidates the opportunity to strengthen their research career options and allows for further development of skills in research, planning, management, strategy, professional communication and leadership.   The 30-day internship placement can be undertaken in an industry, government or non-government organisation, and is self-sourced by the student in consultation with the Subject Coordinator.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): HUMN 7038 ANDHUMN 7005 ANDHUMN 7026 ANDHUMN 7037 ANDHUMN 7003 ORHUMN 7035 ORCEDS 7002  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9001  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Centre for Health Research  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800160  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9002  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Centre for Infrastructure Engineering  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800189  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9006  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Religion and Society Research Centre  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800157  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9007  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Translational Health Research Institute  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800194  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9008  Higher Degree Research Thesis  - Gender Specific Studies  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800023  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9009  Higher Degree Research Thesis - History  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800019  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9010  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Indigenous Studies  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800021  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9011  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Social Ecology  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800029  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9012  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Sociology  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800123  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9013  Higher Degree Research Thesis PT - History  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800018  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject HUMN 9014  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Writing and Society Research Centre  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject