Academic Handbook Current Edition Teacher Education (TEAC) TEAC 0001  English for Academic Purposes (EAP) - UWSCollege  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 70061  Level: Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1006  Children's Literature and Digital Texts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102630  This subject introduces key concepts in literature for children and young adults, examining theory and research related to literature; the diversity of literature and multi-literate environments; and the impact of social and cultural influences on literature. Through reading a wide range of literature, including literary classics, popular texts, graphic novels, picture books, in paper-based and electronic forms, students will identify the interrelationships between image and writing and ideological assumptions conveyed through these texts. It will focus on Australian literature, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander literature, Asian literature and bilingual texts.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1007  Creative Arts for Early Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102664  This subject will engage students in developing a critical appreciation for the role of the arts in their own right, in society and in the early years. Students will develop appreciation for the relevance of the arts in children’s play and identity formation, and as meaning making and communication tools. Opportunities for creative thinking and creative expression will be explored firsthand through introductory experiences and theory in the areas of drama, music, visual arts, dance and media arts. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1008  Curriculum and Aboriginal Perspectives  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102115  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to introduce students to the characteristics of classrooms and curriculum implementation. Students will explore the structure of New South Wales/National curricula in all key learning areas, examine the perspectives which influence curriculum and the way in which curriculum is interpreted using Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives. The subject provides an understanding of the importance of the art forms and Aboriginal ways of knowing as powerful teaching and learning strategies across the primary curriculum and as creative arts in their own right. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2001 - Creative Arts 1 - AREP  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1010  Early Primary Mathematics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102119  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to extend the development of mathematical concepts, skills and understandings for children from Kindergarten to Year 3 based on the NSW Syllabus for the Australian curriculum Mathematics K-6. An awareness of relevant research and curriculum documents, combined with the practical knowledge of teaching, learning and assessment strategies, will assist teachers to design and implement a series of experiences that will enhance the conceptual knowledge of their students.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 1002 - Early Primary Maths (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1011  Educational Psychology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102636  This subject highlights the interacting contributions of biology and environment to the development of children and explores how teachers' knowledge of this process must inform their pedagogy. Specifically, this subject examines classic and current theories and research evidence-base relating to the biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development of children and the implications of these for learning and classroom practice. It includes theoretical perspectives on the brain and learning including memory formation, retention and models of motivation, attention, and knowledge acquisition. This subject dispels common educational neuromyths and focuses on evidence-informed pedagogical practices that support learning, engagement, motivation, and wellbeing in culturally responsive classrooms. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1012  English as an International Language  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102438  English is the first Global Language and the most important international Lingua Franca today. The teaching of English as a second or foreign language is a huge industry internationally, and a driver of export dollars in the Australian economy.  The teaching of English as an International Language (EIL) is a new area of study and it is indispensable for any student seeking to gain a competitive edge in an international career. This subject is a key introductory subject in the International English Major. It is designed to equip graduates with marketable skills across multiple areas, including International Relations, Marketing and Business, Interpreting and Translation, and TESOL.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1013  Everyday Childhoods  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102665  In this subject students will engage in an exploration of what it means to be a child in a postmodern world and how different theoretical approaches influence ways of understanding children’s lives. Alongside questions of how gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity, students will explore the notion of a child’s subjectivity. A child’s subjectivity is the conscious and unconscious thoughts and emotions of the child, their sense of self, their body and their way of understanding their relationship to the world. Building on this knowledge, students will also explore the four key child-environment identities of the physical child, the social child, the learning child and the natural child and by analysing a variety of scholarly and non-scholarly texts around the child’s body and behaviour will reflect on a child’s individuality and emerging identity.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1014  Experience-based Outdoor Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102206  In this subject students connect with the natural world through outdoor adventure activities. Students learn about themselves, others, and the environment through experiential activities. The subject focuses on self-reliance, resiliency, interdependence, managing personal risks, and the value of life-long outdoor recreation for enjoyment, health and well-being. This subject will involve a full day practical field trip in the outdoors as well as scheduled tutorials. The practical field trip is physically demanding whilst also extending students mentally and socially. Given the nature of the bushwalking field trip, participants require a moderate level of personal fitness.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: SPRT 1005 - Outdoor Recreation  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1017  Identity and Voice in Multimodal Texts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102114  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people's identities are depicted in a wide range of texts pertaining to expressions of and about Aboriginality. These various representations form the way Indigenous identities are constructed, projected and reflected in society often through the media. Students will examine how we then set in motion a better understanding of this phenomenon using carefully selected texts, the diverse nature of them and compare the outcomes; particularly the way they affect relationships between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. The subject explores genres, voice, authority, identity, the complexities surrounding these debates and discourses, and how teachers are the advocates for negotiating power, space and voice for communities into the future. The examination of the portrayal of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in texts in a school context will be deconstructed so students understand the process of producing current and future identities. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 1003 - Indigenous Cultural texts in Education  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1020  Language and Literacy 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102118  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The subject examines ways of enhancing children's language learning through speaking, listening, reading and writing as they begin to create and understand the oral, written and visual texts of their environment. Current literacy and language theories are examined. The diverse needs of learners are considered and appropriate teaching strategies to develop literacy skills are explored. Students will appreciate children's literature and the way it can be used to promote literacy and language learning in a variety of early learning contexts K-2. The subject prepares individuals for more advanced subjects involving language and literacy, and primary English teaching specialisation.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2004 - Language and Literacy 1 - AREP  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1022  Literacy Skills for Teacher Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102112  This subject introduces students to the profession of teaching and examines key priorities that are central to the literacy demands on a teacher-educator. It aims to develop oral and written communication skills, skills in reading for academic purposes, and knowledge, skills and confidence in literacy and academic writing. The subject also provides a general orientation to University life, familiarising students with the language of tertiary institutions and the general requirements for progression and assessment.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: COMM 1029 - University Study Skills  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1024  Mathematical Patterns and Relationships  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102249  Students will use a variety of investigative techniques to highlight the evidence of patterns and relationships in mathematics. The inherent structure of mathematics will be approached through the examination of various mathematical systems. In addition, students will examine the nature of mathematical thought including inductive and deductive reasoning. This subject contributes directly to the achievement of a sound foundation in mathematics.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1025 - Mathematical Patterns and Relationships (WSTC) TEAC 2041 - Mathematical Patterns and Relationships  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1025  Mathematical Patterns and Relationships (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700137  Students will use a variety of investigative techniques to highlight the evidence of patterns and relationships in mathematics. The inherent structure of mathematics will be approached through the examination of various mathematical systems. In addition, students will examine the nature of mathematical thought including inductive and deductive reasoning. This subject contributes directly to the achievement of a sound foundation in mathematics.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor programs must have passed or be enrolled in the College Preparatory subjects in order to enrol in this subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1024 - Mathematical Patterns and RelationshipsTEAC 1040 - Mathematical Patterns and Relationships (Block)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1028  Numeracy for Teaching  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102113  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject considers beginning teachers' own mathematics skills and knowledge and how they can use them to support their own numeracy. Primary school teacher education students need to feel confident and competent in their understanding of mathematics as well as in mathematics pedagogy. Students will use a variety of investigative techniques to increase their experience of patterns and relationships in mathematics. The inherent structure of mathematics will be approached through the examination of various mathematical systems and their relationship to the current mathematics K-6 syllabus. Mathematics is specifically taught within this subject to develop professional skills required to meet the demands of primary classroom teaching.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 1007 - Numeracy for Teaching  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1029  Professional Experience 1: Introduction to Classrooms  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102117  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to introduce students to the characteristics of classrooms and curriculum implementation, Students will explore the structure of teaching, learning and curriculum in all key learning areas, with a particular focus on literacy and numeracy. They will examine the perspectives which influence the curriculum and the way in which curriculum is interpreted in the classroom environment. The subject will assist students in commencing the development of their professional portfolio with a ten day's practicum, focusing on professional experience and the work of teachers in primary classrooms.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 1009 - Professional Experience 1 Introduction to Classrooms  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1030  Science and Engineering in Early Childhood  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102667  This subject will develop students’ critical and meaningful understanding of the way in which engineering, science and technology shape our lives and the world we live in. It will extend students' understanding of how engineering, science and technology integrate and impact on each other and how they can be promoted in creative and meaningful ways in the learning environment. This subject will foster a positive disposition in students towards teaching and applying engineering, science and technology in diverse and multi-dimensional educational settings for children aged birth to 5 years. It will focus on investigation, critical thinking and problem solving as they relate to young children’s learning processes. The subject will engage with relevant pedagogical approaches and the Early Years Learning Framework principles, practices and learning outcomes. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1031  Sociology for Educators  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102629  This subject includes the study of society, culture, gender, ethnicity, sexuality and social class. It explores sociological understandings of the impact of the social on individuals and how this influences education, knowledge, society and change. The subject addresses the diverse needs of children in complex contexts. It provides students with opportunities to reflect on universal assumptions often imposed on children, families and communities, through applying analytical tools and developing their professional identity as critical reflexive educators. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1032  The Developing Child  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102046  An in-depth knowledge of child development is essential for educators to plan and provide culturally and developmentally appropriate practices for children in the early years. In this context, this subject aims to explore the diverse nature, processes and aspects of children’s development from conception to 12 years of age. The subject investigates the physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains of development. Students will gather an understanding of the evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research. The role of family, community, and other sociocultural influences will also be considered in relation to understanding the holistic nature of children’s development. Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the compilation of a Child Portfolio. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1033 - The Developing Child (WSTC) TEAC 1041 - The Developing Child (Block)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1033  The Developing Child (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700273  An in-depth knowledge of child development is essential for educators to plan and provide culturally and developmentally appropriate practices for children in the early years. In this context, this subject aims to explore the diverse nature, processes and aspects of children’s development from conception to 12 years of age. The subject investigates the physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains of development. Students will gather an understanding of the evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research. The role of family, community, and other sociocultural influences will also be considered in relation to understanding the holistic nature of children’s development. 
Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the development of a Child Portfolio. Students must complete the WSU’s online Child Protection Awareness Training before undertaking the Child Portfolio.  
Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1032 - The Developing Child  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1037  Exploring Patterns and Relationships in Mathematics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102795  This subject supports pre-service teachers in the understanding of mathematical processes and content. Pre-service teachers will develop competence and confidence in the content areas of Number and Algebra, Measurement and Geometry; Probability and Statistics. They will be able to solve problems related to these areas and communicate their solution methods, using processes from the Working Mathematically strand. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1038  Literacy and Numeracy for Educators  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102794  The primary purpose of this subject is to equip first-year students with personal literacy and numeracy skills necessary for their academic success. This subject aims to develop students’ personal literacy and numeracy skills necessary for participating in academic and professional contexts. It also supports pre-service teachers as literate and numerate citizens to strengthen positive attitudes, skills, and knowledge about literacy and numeracy roles in everyday contexts. Students will have opportunities to develop their interpersonal, verbal and non-verbal communication skills. These skills are integral to the inherent requirements of a graduate teacher who are required to undertake the national literacy and numeracy test mandated by the Australian Government. Pre-service teachers will develop confidence and competence in their understanding of the roles of literacy and numeracy in society, with particular emphasis on problem-solving and effective communication in practical situations. Students will be provided with opportunities to develop critical self-awareness, self-regulation and the ability to organise oneself as a self-directed learner. Essential elements of academic scholarship, including information media literacy, understanding assessment, and academic integrity, will be developed. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1039  Scientist, Artist, Teacher  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102821  This subject is designed to develop pre-service teachers' efficacy and identities in the content area of science and the arts. Building on the concepts of teaching-artists and scientist-as-teacher this subject gives future teachers agency to create innovative and transformative learning experiences for the primary classroom. In this subject students build on their content knowledge in science and the arts, as developed in the subjects Science and Technology in the Primary Years, and Creative Arts Education. They will develop science, performing arts (dance, drama and music), visual arts and media arts skills which can enhance their repertoire for the classroom. This subject will additionally explore the intersection of science and the arts, developing knowledge of creativity, aesthetics, innovation, artistic and scientific processes. It has been designed to give all students the opportunity to develop their knowledge, understanding, skills, confidence and competence in the science and the arts in discrete and integrated forms. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1040  Mathematical Patterns and Relationships (Block)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 500072  Students will use a variety of investigative techniques to highlight the evidence of patterns and relationships in mathematics. The inherent structure of mathematics will be approached through the examination of various mathematical systems. In addition, students will examine the nature of mathematical thought including inductive and deductive reasoning. This subject contributes directly to the achievement of a sound foundation in mathematics.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 2716 - Mathematics 1 Patterns and Relationships LGYB 2441 - Mathematics for K-6 Teachers TEAC 1025 - Mathematical Patterns and Relationships (WSTC) TEAC 2041 - Mathematical Patterns and Relationships TEAC 1024 - Mathematical Patterns and Relationships  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1041  The Developing Child (Block)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 500071  An in-depth knowledge of child development is essential for educators to plan and provide culturally and developmentally appropriate practices for children in the early years. In this context, this subject aims to explore the diverse nature, processes and aspects of children’s development from conception to 12 years of age. The subject investigates the physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains of development. Students will gather an understanding of the evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research. The role of family, community, and other sociocultural influences will also be considered in relation to understanding the holistic nature of children’s development.   
Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the development of a Child Portfolio. Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the development of a Child Portfolio. Students will complete Working with Children Check (WWCC) (or the equivalent in their home state), the NSW Department of Education’s online Child Protection Awareness Training and Annual update as part of the subject.
Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1032 - The Developing Child TEAC 1033 - The Developing Child  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1042  Developing Literacy and Numeracy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject addresses how children and adolescents develop concepts in literacy and numeracy. The focus is on the effective teaching of literacy and numeracy across the curriculum, including explicit and culturally responsive strategies for linguistically diverse learners, including EAL/D students. There is a specific emphasis on how to teach oral language, phonics, reading, comprehension and writing strategies. Foundational mathematical concepts including number, algebra, geometry, measurement, and statistics are explored. Understanding the development of mathematical proficiency, fluency, problem-solving and reasoning is a key focus.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1038  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 1043  Information and Communications Technologies for Teaching and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject will introduce, develop and apply innovative digital literacy skills needed to be successful in the teaching profession. The subject will address digital literacy as a multidimensional skill-set covering domains related to: i) searching, accessing, analysing, and critically evaluating information; ii) communicating and sharing information; iii) creating digital products; iv) safety, and v) problem-solving. The subject will focus on the digital learner, instructional design in digital contexts, e-safety, social media, intellectual property, and legal implications of ICT for teachers. The subject develops the critical digital literacy skills for teachers as determined by the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 1 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2001  Active and Healthy Childhoods  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102669  Early childhood educators are responsible for promoting the health, safety and wellbeing of young children from birth to five years including children from vulnerable backgrounds. This includes children from migrant, low SES, refugee and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander backgrounds. This subject focuses on developing students’ understandings of holistic health, safety, nutrition, and wellbeing of young children. It also assists students to recognise the factors that impact on children’s socio-emotional wellbeing and promote resilience. This subject promotes students’ ability to identify, source, and apply relevant policies and resources to respond to children’s emerging health and wellbeing issues in collaboration with various stakeholders and by taking into consideration the children’s and families’ rights, needs, values and cultural practices. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2004  Being a Teacher  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102637  Theory and the practice of teaching are explored in depth in this subject. This subject explores the necessary teaching and interpersonal skills required to build positive relationships with students and manage the classroom. Students will develop skills in planning, implementing and evaluating the students’ learning which are designed to meet school students’ curriculum needs. It introduces students to a range of teaching strategies and assists with helping to identify when and why to use them. It explores how educational theories and practitioner research underpin and inform curriculum development and pedagogical practice. Integrated in the learning will be the use of information technologies. This subject will also facilitate students in developing a critical understanding of their individual progress towards satisfying the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the Graduate level. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the program can be applied in this and the Professional Experience subjects. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 2048  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2005  Learning Through Play  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102670  This subject focuses on analysing the changing nature, contexts and multiple perspectives on children’s play.  Drawing upon classical and contemporary theories, it examines how educators can facilitate young children’s development, authentic learning and wellbeing in prior-to-school contexts as they play.  Students will apply their knowledge of theories of play pedagogy and the principles of The Early Years Learning Framework to consolidate their understandings of the importance of play for children birth to 5 years. Students will further develop skills in observing and analysing children’s play and plan play experiences for young children. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2009  Contemporary Childhoods  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102048  In this subject students will engage in an exploration of what it means to be a child in a postmodern world and how different theoretical approaches influence ways of understanding children’s lives. Alongside questions of how gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity, students will explore the notion of a child’s subjectivity. A child’s subjectivity is the conscious and unconscious thoughts and emotions of the child, their sense of self, their body and their way of understanding their relationship to the world. Building on this knowledge, students will also explore the four key child-environment identities of the physical child, the social child, the learning child and the natural child and by analysing a variety of scholarly and non-scholarly texts around childhood, children’s bodies and behaviour will reflect on a child’s individuality and emerging identity. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 2012 - Contemporary Perspectives of Childhoods TEAC 2010 Contemporary Childhoods (WSTC)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2010  Contemporary Childhoods (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 700289  In this subject students will engage in an exploration of what it means to be a child in a postmodern world and how different theoretical approaches influence ways of understanding children’s lives. Alongside questions of how gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity, students will explore the notion of a child’s subjectivity. A child’s subjectivity is the conscious and unconscious thoughts and emotions of the child, their sense of self, their body and their way of understanding their relationship to the world. Building on this knowledge, students will also explore the four key child-environment identities of the physical child, the social child, the learning child and the natural child and by analysing a variety of scholarly and non-scholarly texts around childhood, children’s bodies and behaviour will reflect on a child’s individuality and emerging identity.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 2009 - Contemporary Childhoods  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2011  Contemporary Issues in Aboriginal Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102121  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to meet the needs of teachers entering the profession who require in depth knowledge of the field which frames Australia’s Aboriginal identity. It investigates both Aboriginal historical perspectives and interactions with educational institutions and the policies which frame the delivery of Aboriginal content and resources to all students. The subject provides a contextualised framework on which many Key learning area’s perspectives and background knowledge delivery is based. The subject specifically relates to working successfully with Aboriginal children, families and communities in educational and social settings. It will examine relationships between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal societies, social indicators and also critique the impacts of current policy changes in areas such as self-determination, representation, mutual obligation and perspectives for positive, respectful educational outcomes for future generations of students. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 1006 - Issues in Aboriginal Education  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2013  Creative Arts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102125  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject introduces students to theoretical models and sound pedagogical practices of using Music, Media Arts and Visual Arts in the primary classroom. Collaborative, experiential and blended learning as well as reflective practices are the key operating principles of the subject. Students will explore the theory and practice of the arts in the education process of children through practical and professional experiences. The subject provides an understanding of the importance of the art forms, both as powerful teaching and learning strategies across the primary curriculum and as creative arts in their own right in the K-2 classroom.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2008 - Creative Arts 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2014  Cultural Diversity, Society and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102120  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Teachers are required to understand the diverse cultural make up of schools and how to teach a diverse range of children. Using sociological and cultural theory, the subject examines conservative, liberal and radical approaches to cultural diversity in education. This cultural diversity includes dimensions of gender, religion, ethnicity, race, class, language and sexuality. The subject develops cultural literacy through the application of various theories such as Marxist and feminist-post structuralist analysis of these social relations to cultural diversity; pedagogy and cyberspace. Within this framework it is also essential that teachers engage with and understand the diversity and fluidity of individuals and the broader Australian community in order to promote equitable practices in schooling and to facilitate educational and professional transformation. Developing understandings of society, culture and the formation of subjectivities will promote an enhanced awareness of equity issues as well as crucial analytical and critical tools to address the needs of diverse students, their families, teachers, and the broader school community.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 1001 - Cultural Diversity Society and Learning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2015  Diversity and Difference  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101112  This subject introduces students to a range of contemporary theoretical frameworks that will develop their understandings about the social construction of difference, identity and subjectivity within social, historical and political contexts. A critical awareness of the intersections between language, knowledge, power and discourse provides students with the practical and theoretical tools necessary for reflecting, analyzing and deconstructing inequalities and subjectivity in personal and professional contexts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 0317 - Diversity and Difference 2 Understanding the 'Self' in Socio-Cultural Contexts  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2017  Education and Transformation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101263  This subject provides opportunities for students to examine theories and practices associated with Transformative Learning in relation to their personal development as educators. Transformative Learning is learning that is empowering, deep and life changing. It and similar ways of approaching learning - the holistic, ecological and systemic - share a reflective base. All are inquiries into the relationships that make learning work. Students investigate these as theoretical and practical approaches to learning in real world settings: as powerful educational feedback systems. This subject combines the design and practical enactment of theoretically grounded approaches to socially relevant and personally meaningful learning.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2018  Education for Sustainability  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101663  Increasingly, the need to develop sustainable ways of living that can reduce our ecological footprint and conserve precious natural resources for future generations is recognised as a critical concern of education at all levels. Developing 'sustainability literacy' requires new ways of thinking and learning that enable us to recognise the connections between environmental concerns, social patterns and individual actions. This subject approaches key issues in sustainability education with a learner-centred approach that builds skills for inquiry, analysis and creative action and involves a three-hour field trip. It promotes personal and social change, develops civic values and empowers learners to be leaders for a sustainable future. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2020  Educational Psychology for Teaching Children  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102126  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Responsive teaching engages students holistically in learning that is tailored to meet their physical, cognitive, social, emotional and developmental needs. This subject will consider the learning needs and styles of primary children, including Indigenous children.  It will introduce key approaches to instruction based on theories and research in educational psychology. A particular focus will be the development of children’s sense of self and the ways that children’s school experiences interact with cultural and familial influences to shape identity, motivation and engagement throughout the primary years. Particular emphasis is given to developing responsive teaching practices which promote social and emotional wellbeing of children and are underpinned by high-quality relationships which extend to include the valuing of families and the wider community.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2002 - Educational Psychology for Primary Teaching  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2021  Early Childhood Curriculum and Pedagogy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102674  This subject supports a developing understanding of the principles and practices of early childhood curriculum and pedagogy. A range of approaches to curriculum and pedagogy will also be examined. Students will learn about approaches to observing and documenting children’s learning in ways that celebrate children’s competencies and build connections between children, families and educators while also identifying any areas where children’s experiences may be extended. Students will develop strategies for planning and connecting curriculum to children’s social worlds which facilitate children’s in-depth investigations and critical thinking in ways that cater for diverse interests. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2023  Engaging in Early Childhood Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102673  This subject incorporates 20 days of professional experience in an early childhood setting.  Prior to external practicum work, students engage in intensive on campus coursework. The fieldwork introduces students to work in early childhood contexts while the coursework prompts students to reflect on the nature of early childhood teaching, their role as teachers in teaching and learning, the frameworks that guide practice and contemporary issues related to teaching young children. Students also apply skills in observation-based assessment of children's interests, development, dispositions and learning, explore curriculum decision making based on their assessments of learning and development and other strategies to facilitate children's engagement, learning and development. Students will immerse themselves in the setting and demonstrate capacity to work effectively with children Birth – 5 years. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2024  Engaging with Children, Families, Colleagues and Communities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102645  This subject explores the importance of engaging with children, families, colleagues and communities of diverse backgrounds to foster a child's learning, health and well-being. Preservice educators will reflect on complex interrelationships between theories, research, policies and practices and the importance of positive relationships and partnerships with children, families, colleagues, and communities. Students will explore discourses associated with disadvantage through the analysis of children's life experiences and contexts. In this way, preservice educators will gain an understanding of the nuances of working collaboratively and in partnership with children, families, colleagues, and communities, including strategies to work ethically, sensitively and confidentially. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2025  English Language Analysis  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102439  In this subject, students will develop a thorough understanding of the structure of English and the use of English across contexts. Students will study the workings of the English language, including its sounds, grammar, syntax and textual forms, through the analysis of diverse texts. The skills developed through the analysis of real-world texts throughout the subject will prepare students for effective participation in a range of personal and professional contexts, enhancing their capacity for study and for employment.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2029  Fundamentals for Working Mathematically  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102208  In this subject students will acquire a variety of problem solving, investigation and mathematical modelling techniques that incorporate the application of algebra and highlight the importance of understanding probability, data and graphical representations in real life. Students will apply mathematics in real contexts; evaluate data gathered in real time and identify patterns while engaging with the concepts of number, probability, measurement, problem solving, linear and exponential representations. Engagement with this subject contributes directly to the achievement of a sound understanding and application of mathematical concepts and develops mathematical thinking.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 2042 - Mathematics Principles and Applications  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2030  Health and Physical Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102124  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Students will work on developing their knowledge and understanding of Health and Physical Education (HPE). This subject is designed to introduce the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Personal Development, Health and Physical Education K-10 (incorporating Health and Physical Education K-6). Through an examination of the syllabus, modules and support documents, students will develop the necessary skills to design an effective scope and sequence for K-6 Health and Physical Education (HPE) and develop a program of work suitable for a specific stage of learner K-2. Assessment and evaluation will be addressed and the need to develop descriptive student profiles relating to student achievement of outcomes will be highlighted.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2005 - Personal Development Health and Physical Education 1 (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2031  History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102122  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject provides opportunities for students to develop knowledge of the outcomes, subject matter, pedagogies and experiences that define the key learning area of History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship (HSIE). Key concepts of change in family history, local history, and Australia's history and understanding Australia as a Nation are explored. In Geography, concepts that develop a sense of curiosity about environments, peoples, cultures and place, in both Australia and the world, are a priority. In Civics and Citizenship, the focus is on relationships between the individual and the state, and the values and mutual responsibilities and obligations for civil, political and social participation in Australian society. It enables students to develop their own content knowledge and understandings, skills and dispositions necessary for planning, programming and teaching HSIE K-6. It promotes teaching strategies that prepare primary children for informed and effective citizenship, contributing to the quality of their society and environments.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2003 - Human Society and Its Environment (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2032  Inclusive Education Practices  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102130  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Teacher education students develop understanding and skills that enable them to understand and assess the intellectual, emotional, social and physical needs of all children in the classroom. This subject assists teacher education students to develop appropriate skills, attitudes and methodologies to enable them to plan, implement and evaluate programs which meet the educational needs of individual children with disabilities, learning difficulties and/or behaviour disorders as well as those who are gifted and talented. This subject also explores strategies and theoretical approaches which promote and enable inclusion and effective learning within the context of National and State policy and legislation.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2011 - Inclusive Education Practices - AREP  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2033  Indigenous Landscapes and Sustainability  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102133  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The subject explores how Aboriginal ways of knowing country, and how tacit Aboriginal cultural knowledge embeds many of the principles of sustainability.  Country defines First Nations people’s identity and spirituality globally. The subject provides opportunity of the exploration and development of self and identity in terms of traditional stewardship practices that underpin the practice and principles related to the maintenance of place/country, language, spirituality. The subject builds awareness and understanding about Aboriginal ‘ways of knowing’ and ‘caring’ for Country. The subject provides community engagement opportunities for the exploration of oral traditions, language, writings about nurturing, visiting, talking, singing and feeling ‘sorry’ for Country.  It will design a framework whereby as future educators they will be able to use an ecological approach to their teaching of significant global issues such as: sustainable land and energy use, the impact of human society on land and land management, global warming, the concept of self-sustaining systems and valuing sustainable patterns of living. The subject requires students to undertake visits to Environmental Field Studies Centres, the UWS Sustainability Subject and local cultural learning centres to work with Elders. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2010 - Human Society and Its Environment 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2034  Language Assessment and Testing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102475  This subject introduces students to fields of language assessment and testing in teaching English as a foreign/second language. It provides students with some insight into the key language components for assessment, assessment design and development. It also equips students with updated knowledge about different assessment approaches which impact on the teaching and learning of English as a foreign/second language in local and global contexts.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2037  Learning and Creativity  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101259  This subject examines the inter-related processes of learning and creativity and the application and practice of these in all aspects of life. Learning and Creativity is contextual. This context is personal, social, cultural and environmental. The subject content is critically positioned within diverse theories, with an emphasis on experiential learning and ongoing critical reflection. The subject promotes understanding of feeling and experience as much as concepts and ideas. It emphasises the tools and skills of learning, the everyday nature of creativity and enables students to develop and apply their creativity. It is designed for students interested in personal, community and cultural development, in the context of far reaching change.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2043  Numeracy and Mathematics in the Early Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102641  The subject will develop students' understandings of children's construction of mathematical and numeracy concepts during the years from Kindergarten to Year 3. Students will develop their ability to assess young children's mathematical understandings and numeracy development, and to provide learning experiences for a diversity of learners, including investigation and the use of digital technologies, to enhance the growth of children's mathematical thinking. The subject will study the NSW K-10 Syllabus in all of its strands, with a particular emphasis on the Working Mathematically strand. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2046  Pedagogy and Praxis in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102643  This subject is designed to meet the needs of early childhood, primary and secondary teachers who are required to develop their pedagogical approaches in order to become culturally responsive educators that meet the specific needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners. Preservice teachers examine current research which supports the teaching of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners their particular educational settings. Through their development as teacher professionals the subject will provide opportunities for future teacher professionals to demonstrate their application of these pedagogical approaches and explain how this shapes their future classroom practice. This subject provides foundational experiences to engage with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander history, culture and education educational experiences in NSW. It provides opportunities for preservice teachers to explore praxis which is underpinned by research. The subject requires educators to apply appropriate application of cultural protocols which enables future teachers to successfully work with Aboriginal children, families and communities in ways that maximise learning outcomes for Aboriginal learners in a range of educational settings. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2048  Professional Experience 1: Working in Classrooms  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102639  This subject is designed to introduce students to the practical and pedagogical perspectives of becoming a teacher in the primary school context. As Pre-service Teachers, students will engage in the culture of schools to gain an understanding of how schools and classrooms operate. This professional experience provides opportunities for students to observe and engage in classroom organisation, classroom management strategies, lesson planning and delivery, and student/teacher interactions. Primary Professional Experience 1: Working in Classrooms has a two week (15 day) placement component. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2062  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 2004  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2049  Professional Experience 2: School-based Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102128  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Students will have 20 days placement in schools. During these days students will work in partnership with classroom teachers to further develop and begin to put into practice their knowledge of curriculum and pedagogy. Students will observe classrooms, assist individuals and groups of students with their learning, and begin to teach lessons. By the end of the subject students will have taught lessons in all of the Key Learning Areas, assessed student learning and evaluated their teaching.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2007 - Professional Experience 2 School-based learning (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2052  Science and Technology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102123  This subject is designed to introduce the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Science K-10 (incorporating Science and Technology K-6), with a focus on K-2. The significance of children's views is emphasised in the selection, design and sequencing of activities for primary students in the development of science and technology experiences. Scientific concepts are considered in the context of distinct but related science and technology areas of built environments, information and communications, living things, natural phenomena, products and services, and Earth and its surroundings. Relevant science and technology content, together with strategies useful in developing primary science and technology knowledge, understandings, skills, processes, values and attitudes will be explored. The tutorials and assignments are designed to place student teachers in situations where they can focus on themselves as learners and to reflect on the implications of their learning and the learning of others in their future professional practice.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2006 - Science and Technology 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2053  Science and Technology in the Primary Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102644  This subject introduces students to the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Science and Technology K-6. It focuses on developing students' pedagogical content knowledge appropriate for teaching science and technology to learners in the primary years. This subject demonstrates how scientific and technological learning experiences can be developed to cater for the needs of the diverse groups of learners in primary schools, including English as an Additional Language or Dialect (EAL/D), Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and low socioeconomic status (SES) learners. Students will also focus on themselves as learners and reflect on the implications of their learning and the learning of others in their future professional practice. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2054  Scientific Discovery and Invention  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102209  Scientific discovery and inventions have made a significant impact on contemporary society. Science is a dynamic, futures oriented, collaborative human endeavour arising from curiosity and interest. In this subject students explore science as a distinctive way of thinking about and explaining events and phenomena. This subject aims to develop students' understanding of the creativity of science and technology concepts and investigative and innovative processes. As the subject also aims to investigate the impact of scientific discoveries and inventions on society, students will examine how various perspectives, such as cultural (including Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) perspectives, explain natural phenomena. This subject will benefit students interested in teaching as a career to design authentic learning programs that explore how scientific discovery and invention are applied in everyday life. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2055  TESOL Teaching Methodology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102474  This subject focuses on the process of teaching English as a foreign/second language. It aims to give students in the field of TESOL knowledge, skills and strategies in teaching such as choosing teaching approaches, selecting and sequencing language content, managing classrooms, evaluating and designing teaching and learning resources for a wide range of learner levels and types. The subject also aims to develop skills of critical reflection, action research and evaluation of their own practice for potential teachers.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2056  Teaching Art in the Early Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102671  This subject continues students’ exploration of the creative arts and focuses on pedagogies to support the creative child. The role of the teacher and environment as art educators will be explored in detail, specifically the role of the pedagogical leader in facilitating meaningful, sustained and inclusive art experiences for the young child. Students will explore the relevance of the arts in the development of children’s play and will engage with appropriate information and communication technologies for learning in the arts. Students will also draw from theory and research literature to critically analyse traditional and contemporary approaches to teaching the arts and the role of the teacher in supporting children’s ability to make meaning from and express their social and cultural worlds. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2058  Wellbeing and Promoting Positive Learning Environments  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102129  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The purpose of this subject is for prospective teachers to develop an understanding of the individual and contextual factors which influence children's behaviour and to apply this knowledge to building and maintaining positive learning environments. The subject focuses on proactive and preventative measures through the establishment of a healthy learning ecology.  It draws upon professional experiences to apply sound theoretical foundations to base approaches to responding to a range of student behaviours while simultaneously promoting student mental health, wellbeing and resilience.  The subject provides support for the development of an integrated management plan that reflects the diverse nature of children's behaviour and is informed by both theory and a critical evaluation of personal and professional dispositions.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2013 - Personal Development Health and Physical Education 2 (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2060  Developing Aboriginal Languages K-6  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102747  This subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education program. This subject introduces teacher education students to the developing and planning processes required to develop Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages and LOTE opportunities across K-6. Students will engage with the complexities in teaching Aboriginal languages. As they engage with a diverse array of themes, debates and contested issues in Australia’s Aboriginal language revitalisation programs they develop understanding about protocols and consultations that are required to deliver programs in schools. Students will learn to create culturally-responsive learning experiences for primary classrooms that embrace Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and cultures and develop skills and knowledge in teaching Aboriginal languages. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2061  Teaching K-6: Pedagogies, Priorities and Capabilities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102749  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The subject will develop students’ knowledge and skills for planning and teaching in K-6 classrooms using both the Cross-Curriculum Priority Areas (CPPA) through the incorporation of the seven General Capabilities (GC). The subject enables the delivery of learning area content focusing on key learning areas, HSIE and English at the same time as developing knowledge, understanding and skills relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and cultures, Asia and Australia’s engagement with Asia and/or Sustainability.  The subject will explore how Literacy, Numeracy, ICT capability and Critical and creative thinking are fundamental in students becoming successful lifelong learners whilst the areas of Personal and social capability, Ethical understanding, and Intercultural understanding focus on ways of being, behaving and learning to live with others, and taught through the HSIE and English learning areas.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 1021 - Learning Teaching and Technologies  Incompatible Subjects: TEAC 2036 - Learning Futures and Curriculum Integration  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2062  Teachers as Change Makers  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102796  Through engaged learning, Teachers as Change Makers builds professional teaching skills by enhancing pre-service teachers' understandings of the clientele with whom they will be professionally involved as teachers. This subject includes a practical component requiring a minimum of 25 hours of engaged learning in primary schools that provide support to children from a range of diverse backgrounds and experiences. Through practical experience such as learning support programs, the subject explores the criticality of ethical understandings and teaching practices that may influence the educational outcomes of children. In particular, this subject focuses on promoting the importance of reciprocal and reflexive teaching approaches for providing inclusive settings that make a difference to children’s educational experiences and provides a space to critically explore how teaching practices can empower students and communities. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2063  History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship in the Primary Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102820  This subject provides opportunities for students to develop knowledge of the outcomes, subject matter, pedagogies and experiences that define the key learning area of History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship in primary (Kindergarten to Year 6) classrooms. Key concepts of change in family history, local history, and Australia's history and understanding Australia as a Nation are explored. In Geography, concepts that develop a sense of curiosity about environments, peoples, cultures and place, are a priority. In Civics and Citizenship, the focus is on relationships between the individual and the state.? The values and mutual responsibilities and obligations for civil, political and social participation in Australian society are also explored. These areas enable students to develop their own content knowledge and understandings, skills and dispositions necessary for planning, programming and teaching. This subject promotes teaching strategies that prepare primary children to be informed and effective change agents. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2064  Contemporary Childhoods (Block)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 500073  In this subject students will engage in an exploration of what it means to be a child in a postmodern world and how different theoretical approaches influence ways of understanding children’s lives. Alongside questions of how gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity, students will explore the notion of a child’s subjectivity. A child’s subjectivity is the conscious and unconscious thoughts and emotions of the child, their sense of self, their body and their way of understanding their relationship to the world. Building on this knowledge, students will also explore the four key child-environment identities of the physical child, the social child, the learning child and the natural child and by analysing a variety of scholarly and non-scholarly texts around childhood, children’s bodies and behaviour will reflect on a child’s individuality and emerging identity.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 2009 - Contemporary Childhoods TEAC 2010 - Contemporary Childhoods  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2065  Digital Childhoods  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject aims to develop students' understanding of children and adolescents' engagement in a digital environment, and how their experiences contribute to their understanding of their world and their role within it. Students will critically explore multiple aspects of digital engagement. This will include the various ways that children and adolescents use technology; the educational, economic, social, cultural and political factors that mediate their experiences; and the implications of their digital engagement for play, learning, social engagements, and identity. Students will examine the social impact of technologies on children and adolescents, and identify strategies to deliver and effect ethical change. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 2067  Being a Teacher (WSTC)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Theory and the practice of teaching are explored in depth in this subject. This subject explores the necessary teaching and interpersonal skills required to build positive relationships with students and manage the classroom. Students will develop skills in planning, implementing and evaluating the students’ learning which are designed to meet school students’ curriculum needs.  It introduces students to a range of teaching strategies and assists with helping to identify when and why to use them. It explores how educational theories and practitioner research underpin and inform curriculum development and pedagogical practice. Integrated in the learning will be the use of information technologies. This subject will also facilitate students in developing a critical understanding of their individual progress towards satisfying the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the Graduate level.  The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the program can be applied in this and the Professional Experience subjects.Level: Undergraduate Level 2 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 2004  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3003  Community Responsive Pedagogies and Leadership  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102139  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to build on students' sociological understandings of primary schooling and how it impacts on First Nation peoples.. The subject builds on experiential, theoretical and curriculum knowledge developed in the course. Schools have a long tradition of working with communities at the 'chalkface' of social change. Such relationships are complex, evolving and spatially/ temporally different because of a local/global sense of place and the socio-political context.  Possibilities for promoting socially just practices for different communities are therefore contingent upon a range of strategies for inclusion. This subject examines theoretical frameworks that can assist in understanding the complexities of these processes and will incorporate a 5 day community engagement activity involving First Nation peoples. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 3001 - Communities and Primary Schools  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3004  Creative Arts Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102647  This subject explores the importance of the creative arts in the primary classroom, addressing the content and pedagogies appropriate to dance, drama, music and visual arts. This subject has been designed to give students the opportunity to develop their knowledge, understanding, skills, confidence and competence in the five art forms of creative arts. It also provides students with the opportunity to develop their planning and teaching skills in the creative arts, through exploring pedagogies for the teaching of practical arts classes. This subject develops students as teachers who demonstrate creativity when teaching, empathy with diverse groups of student learners, a commitment to socially just schools and classrooms and who understand artistic processes. It aims to give students an understanding of the role of aesthetics, imagination and play in learning. An independent learning program also encourages learners to develop their own arts skills in three strands. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3005  Critical Literacies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102678  This subject increases students’ understanding of literacy as a dynamic, social and cultural practice. It explores the changing nature of literacy by globalisation, new technologies and the diversity of language/language dialects. Students will explore the importance of valuing children’s culture, home language/dialect as an integral component to identity, particularly for bilingual and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. Issues of power and language are considered through social, cultural and critical theories surrounding diversity and difference, and how this shapes the decisions of educators to build the literacy capacities of all children. Students will learn about contemporary frameworks of literacy and language and draw on this knowledge to extend children’s literacy learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3006  Education in a Cosmopolitan Society  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101661  This subject responds to the question of what it might mean to educate "world teachers" for a cosmopolitan age where classrooms and schools are being shaped by the increasing mobility of ideas, people, technology, media and finance. For some time, multicultural education, as policy and practice, has dominated schooling in Australia. While this was an important period in Australia, times have changed. The globalisation of teaching is one dimension of this change as supranational bodies more and more shape what teachers do. Set against these global agendas are the mobilities that teachers must respond to at the local level. This subject examines cosmopolitan social and education theory as a means to understand these dynamics, framing teachers as agents of change.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3008  English Language Linguistics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102476  In 2021, this subject replaced by 102813 - English Talk. This subject offers students a formal study of the workings of the English language as it is used around the world. Using real-world examples, this subject builds on the content and skills which students have developed in the unit: English as an International Language.  It prepares students with a thorough knowledge of variations in English across the globe, introducing them to the ways in which English varies at phonological, grammatical and register levels across contexts. This subject is essential for a student's development of more formal skills in the English language, developing their English knowledge and skill into a professional and personal asset.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LANG 3099 - English Talk  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3009  Ethical Futures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101623  This subject is designed to build the leadership capacity of educators through exploring, understanding and expressing the values and ethics embedded in policy, practice and educational change. The subject also addresses the importance of ethically informed advocacy and its role in educational futures and democratic processes. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 2047 - Policy Politics and Educational Futures  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3010  Health and Physical Education in the Primary Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102652  This subject is designed to explore the content and pedagogies of Health and Physical Education (HPE) in the  PDHPE NSW K-6 curriculum. Students will develop an understanding of effective pedagogies of HPE. The knowledge and skills developed in this subject can be applied in the other subjects of study in the course and Professional Experience subjects. This subject aims to develop teachers who demonstrate empathy with diverse groups of student learners and commitment to socially just schools and classrooms. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3012  Global and Community Citizenship in Early Childhood  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102675  This subject explores the key concepts of learning and teaching in the areas of history, geography, civics and citizenship, and incorporates place studies, sustainability and environmental education. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies in birth to 5 years early childhood settings are a focus in this subject. The subject will explore a broad, complex and engaging field of study which reflects people as social beings who interact together and with the environment through and over time.  Perspectives including those of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, socio-cultural influences and place-based pedagogies will be investigated. Students will be encouraged to explore their own place in Australian society and the way in which this contributes to their professional identity and teaching practice. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3013  Inclusive Practices  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102654  Effective and inclusive teaching requires knowledge of how students learn as well as proficiency in applying appropriately tailored teaching strategies to cater to needs of all students. The subject provides a foundation of knowledge and practice that facilitates development of appropriate and inclusive attitudes and skills for teaching learners with diverse needs in the regular classroom. It will address professional skills, approaches and relevant legislation in the implementation of the principles of inclusive education practices in primary school settings. In particular, the capacity to structure individualised education programs will be developed drawing on practical experiences and a broad familiarity with the field. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3014  Language and Literacy 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102134  This subject will continue the development of students' understandings about language and literacy in a K-6 context. The subject will focus of the area of writing, including literary, factual, media and multi-media texts. Students will develop their theoretical knowledge about the teaching and learning of writing and the relationship between writing, reading, talking and listening.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2012 - Language and Literacy 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3015  Language and Literacy in Years 3-6  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102650  The subject extends understandings of English content based on the strands of language, literature and literacy and the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: English K-10 with a focus on years 3-6. Students will draw on contemporary theories of literacy learning and teaching, and will examine a repertoire of teaching and assessment strategies for deconstructing and constructing a range of texts in classrooms. By investigating a range of written and multimodal genres, their textual structures and grammar, students will develop their meta-semiotic awareness. This awareness is crucial when they plan to teach primary school students literacy skills related to various learning areas of the Australian Curriculum. In this subject, students' technological, pedagogical and content knowledge is progressively enhanced to prepare them to teach innovatively with digital media with simultaneous infusion of emergent language and literacy practices. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 3016 Language and Literacy in the Early Years or TEAC 1020 Language and Literacy 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3016  Language and Literacy in the Early Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102646  The subject examines ways of understanding English content based on the strands of language, literature and literacy in the Australia Curriculum: English and the NSW K-6 English Syllabus. Students will understand how language skills are acquired and introduced to theories related to language and literacy learning, particularly from a sociocultural perspective. Students will explore the relationships between language, literacy and literature across a range of contexts with the focus on children in the early years, aged five to eight. Students will also develop an understanding of current theoretical and pedagogical approaches for English language teaching and learning with a focus on culturally and linguistically diverse learners. Students will determine young children’s speaking, listening, reading, phonological and graphological awareness, and writing strengths and needs and develop strategies for teaching students in the early years. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3017  Learning Environments  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102679  This subject engages students in exploring the role of physical environments that support children’s learning in early childhood and community settings. Theoretical perspectives, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, sociocultural influences and place-based pedagogies will be investigated. Relevant policy and regulation documents around risk, play and pedagogy will be examined. Through field visits to early childhood and community settings, students will have the opportunity to plan and design indoor and outdoor learning environments that encourage investigation and discovery using natural and open-ended materials. The overall focus of this subject is for students to develop an understanding and appreciation for learning environments that promote a connection to place and sustainability. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3019  Numeracy and Mathematics in Years 3-6  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102649  This subject explores pedagogy specifically relating to the teaching and learning of primary mathematics in years 3 - 6. This subject is one of 16 subjects that provide opportunities for students as Pre-service Teachers to prepare for their future employment as a teacher and to engage with the key elements of the New South Wales Education Standards Authority (NESA). Students will develop skills in pedagogy and practice within the area of primary mathematics. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the course can be applied in this subject and the knowledge and skills developed in this subject can be applied in other subjects in the course. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2043 Numeracy and Mathematics in the Early Years or TEAC 1010 Early Primary Mathematics  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3020  Professional Experience 2: Working with Assessment Data for Instruction  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102648  This subject focuses on student data and assessment in relation to Pre-service Teachers’ curriculum specialisation. Students will develop the capacity to interpret student assessment data to inform their teaching as well as develop knowledge of formal and informal assessment strategies. The subject has a three-week (15 day) placement component, which provides opportunities to examine and interpret student data to inform planning and teaching. It also has one day on campus. Students will employ formal and informal assessment strategies to support student learning and inform teaching. Students are required to analyse their own learning in relation to the Graduate Teacher Standards as a review of the progress of their Learning Portfolio is undertaken in this subject. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2048  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3021  Professional Experience 3:  Engaging with Diverse Students and Communities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102656  This subject provides students with the opportunity to participate in a 20-day professional experience set in the context of their future profession and under the supervision of qualified teachers. As Pre-service Teachers, students will develop an understanding of diverse learners within specific school and classroom contexts. Individual students’ strengths, needs and learning styles will be identified to support the design and delivery of teaching experiences that will enhance engagement and learning. The subject also gives students an opportunity to reflect on the processes involved in the teaching cycle, and refine their competencies as beginning teachers. Students are required to analyse their own learning in relation to the Graduate Teacher Standards as a review of the progress of their Learning Portfolio. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 3020  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3023  Professional Experience 4: Teaching in Country  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102141  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject will build on previous Professional Experience in the program. Students will be placed for 30 days in one of the partner local/regional/rural schools with a high Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander student population. Students are required to develop skills related to effective planning, programming, evaluating and teaching in a teaching context, which will be assessed against the Graduate Teacher Standards and as part of their Teaching Performance Assessment (TPA). Students will experience how school and classroom curricula and policy are influenced by the nature of the school’s community.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 1029 ANDTEAC 2049 ANDTEAC 3040  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1486 - Professional Experience 3 Teaching in Context - AREP  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3026  Responsive Pedagogies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102676  Responsive, respectful and reciprocal relationships with children are a basic tenet of early childhood education and lead to quality outcomes for children. Interactions among children, adults and environments are key to children’s learning. Responsive pedagogies use a relationship-based approach to nurture children and families’ unique dispositions, cultural and social strengths. This subject promotes respectful interactions that are associated with social justice, equity, inclusivity and ethical practice. Responsive interactions require teachers to be engaged, to connect and use diverse, nuanced knowledge of curriculum and content to extend children’s learning and thinking. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3028  Fostering Positive Behaviour in the Early Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102682  Educators have a key responsibility for guiding and facilitating young children’s positive behaviours, their sense of belonging, and wellbeing. This subject provides students with an opportunity to analyse a range of theoretical approaches and various developmental and socio-cultural contextual factors that influence children’s behaviours, learning and social interactions. Specifically, students will develop knowledge about diverse approaches to guiding children positively in partnership with families that are responsive to the children’s needs, family’s aspirations and expectations. Students will apply the legislative and ethical protocols in designing a guidance plan to support the development of positive behaviours and socio-emotional wellbeing in an early childhood setting. Students will also critically evaluate their personal and professional dispositions relating to guiding young children’s positive learning and behaviours. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Co-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3029  TESOL Curriculum Design  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102477  This subject explores issues, approaches and stages in the TESOL curriculum design process within a range of contexts. It assists students to identify and implement effective strategies for planning, designing and evaluating language learning programs relevant to the needs of the learners and the contexts of learning.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3030  TESOL Placement  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102478  This subject provides students an opportunity to undertake a professional practice subject which consists of an internship in an English language teaching organisation for students of TESOL. It involves participation in the various aspects of the work of the teaching organisation, including classroom observation, service learning, supervised English language teaching practice component, and volunteer tutoring either in Australia or overseas. In-context placement experience assists TESOL students' career development.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2055  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3031  The Brain and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102207  Interest in the relationship between the brain and how people learn is at an all-time high. Surprisingly, most theories of teaching and learning say little about the brain. In an age where 'brain-based' educational products are a multimillion-dollar industry, there is a need for students, parents, and anybody with an interest in education to have some basic knowledge of the brain. This subject is designed to provide students with a straightforward introduction into the limitations and possibilities of brain function, especially with respect to memory and learning. In addition, this subject also examines motivation, exceptional learners, and challenging groups.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 3034 - Young People Their Futures and Education  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3032  Understanding and Teaching in Context  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102136  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The subject aims to directly challenge students to inquire into, reflect upon, collect classroom data, analyse and respond to the data and subsequently begin to develop a repertoire of pedagogies that cater to the needs of learners within contexts which reflect the diversity of today's educational settings. The subject aims to develop skills related to effective planning, programming, evaluating and teaching in a wide variety of teaching contexts in Primary classrooms.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 3040  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1494 - Understanding and Teaching in Context - AREP  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3036  Data and Assessment in the Primary classroom  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102754  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject investigates the functions and roles of assessment in K-6 classrooms. It considers ways in which assessment can provide positive support that enhances students' progression within the school context. Teacher education students will review, refine and develop their knowledge and skills connected with being an assessment-literate teacher in their own classrooms. The subject will explore both national and international data sets and how these inform policy, classroom practices and professional roles into the future.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3037  Engaging in the Profession  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102755  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Students need to have a variety of experiences that are set in the context of their future profession. Through these experiences they need to draw together, as a capstone, all the previous subjects in the course, integrating them through a well-balanced program that allows the students to refine their skills as beginning teachers. This gives them opportunity to reflect on the processes involved, identify their competencies and assist the school by recognising potential issues and assisting in implementation of the resulting praxis. This subject includes all areas of foundations and curriculum complementing a final practicum experience that will show the interrelationship between theory and practice. It also addresses issues that assist in the development of the individual student toward their transition into teaching. Students will produce a professional learning portfolio in this subject to demonstrate achievement of the Graduate Teacher Standards. The learning portfolio will enable students to reflect deeply on their emerging skills and understanding, towards development of a critical perspective of their practice as a teacher.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1496 - Engaging the Profession - (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3038  Health and Physical Education 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102752  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject further builds students’ knowledge and understandings of the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Health and Physical Education K-10 (incorporating Health and Physical Education K-6) with a focus on the personal development and health components. Through an examination of the syllabus, modules and support documents, students will develop the necessary skills to design an effective scope and sequence for K-6 Health and Physical Education (HPE) and develop a program of work suitable for a Year 5 - 6 learner. Assessment and evaluation will be addressed and the need to develop descriptive student profiles relating to student achievement of outcomes will be highlighted.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2030 ANDTEAC 2058  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2005 - Personal Development Health  Physical Education 1 (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3039  Mathematics 1: Geometry, Number and Algebra Years K-6  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102751  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to enhance teacher education students' understanding of the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Mathematics K-10. The subject provides greater understanding of the content areas of measurement, number, geometry, algebra and statistics in the K-6 classroom focusing on years 5 and 6 and into the secondary school mathematics curriculum. The subject makes clear links to secondary school (year 7) mathematics and will develop the students' conceptual understanding of mathematics and numeracy learning progression from primary to secondary school.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 1028 ANDTEAC 1010  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3040  Professional Experience 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102750  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is a 10 credit point subject. The subject is designed to enable students to have direct experience of teaching in schools, building towards a final professional experience. The Professional Experience stream integrates with the curriculum content and pedagogy delivered in other course subjects. The rationale behind this Professional Experience subject is to give students the opportunity to synthesise and apply their knowledge and skills from all previous subjects for a total of 20 days. The teaching block will enable students to build or cement relationships with a school community. Teacher Education students will be able to consolidate their teaching through the integration of theory and practice as their final preparation as beginning teachers.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 1029 ANDTEAC 2049  Incompatible Subjects: TEAC 3022 - Professional Experience 3 Engaging with the Profession  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3041  Science and Technology 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102753  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to enhance prior work in the science and technology areas with a particular focus on the primary years: 3 – 6. The significance of children’s views is emphasised in the selection, design and sequencing of activities for primary students in science and technology experiences through the four content areas: Biological sciences, Chemical sciences, Earth and Space sciences and the Physical sciences.  Emphasis will be given to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander science elaborations and to develop authentic locally driven, land based teaching of content and classroom resources.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3043  Reading Children's Literature and Digital Texts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102798  In this subject students will gain knowledge and understanding about using children's literature and digital texts to teach reading, critical literacy, comprehension, media literacy and how texts convey meaning through choices in language (written) and images (visual). It will explore how children's literature and digital contexts can be used in a K-6 classroom for the teaching of the mechanics of reading, information literacy, comprehension skills (literal, implied, inferential), text design and the social construction of texts. It will develop students deeper understanding of the four resources model of reading and viewing: text decoder, text participant, text user and text analyst. This subject will examine literature experiences and practices in digital environments and the principles of interactivity, connectivity and access that now characterise the reading experience in the digital age. Through the subject, students will be introduced to a language to talk about both written and visual texts by focusing on the meaning making resources used in constructing the texts. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3044  STEM Principles and Practices in the Primary Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102797  The purpose of this subject is for students to gain exposure to authentic contexts for integrating science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and to develop knowledge and skills with designing and implementing STEM learning experiences. Students will have the opportunity to complete authentic interdisciplinary STEM tasks, and draw upon this experience to design and implement interdisciplinary STEM learning activities aligned to syllabus outcomes. This subject will allow students to simulate and evaluate the teaching practices associated with high-quality interdisciplinary STEM lessons. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3046  Engaging Pedagogies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102819  This subject focuses on the evidence basis and critical practice of effective pedagogy. It considers coherent and deliberate planning and sequencing of tasks and lessons including curriculum-aligned learning outcomes, assessment and feedback to support student engagement and mastery. It critically explores the use of responsive pedagogies for teaching, including explicit teaching, modelling and scaffolding. It evaluates the application of digital technologies and strategies for effective teaching. It challenges students to inquire and reflect upon contemporary issues that affect learning and teaching in classrooms, including working with students from low socio-economic backgrounds, culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) students, students who have English as an additional language or dialect (EALD), Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners, and students from diverse religious backgrounds. It enables students to investigate and consider a range of contemporary pedagogical approaches to facilitate substantive student engagement, and relate these to educational philosophy and contemporary learning theories. There are opportunities to consider the Quality Teaching Model and the Fair Go pedagogical model as frameworks that support student retention of information, engagement and connection to learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3047  Pedagogical Leadership  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102822  Early childhood teachers have a significant role in providing the pedagogical leadership required to deliver quality early childhood services for children and families. This subject introduces key concepts of pedagogical leadership which are then applied in other subjects in the course. In this subject students examine a range of theoretical perspectives and approaches to curriculum and analyse the ways different theories and approaches shape pedagogical practices. Students will have opportunities to research contemporary theories of early childhood education, reflect on their own beliefs and values, refine their personal philosophy of teaching and learning, and consider the implications for their future role as pedagogical and educational leaders in early childhood settings. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3048  Creative Arts 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102851  This subject examines theoretical models and pedagogical practices for using Dance, Drama and Media Arts in primary classrooms and builds on the subject 102125 Creative Arts. Students will develop a range of skills required in the teaching of the arts that support young learner's self-efficacy and awareness. Aboriginal media and performing arts form the basis for strong cultural identity formations for all students. The subject focuses on positive media representations, personal histories and experiences that shape and influence Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and their community life.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2013  Incompatible Subjects: TEAC 2059 - Creative Arts 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3049  Mathematics in Early Childhood  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores the powerful mathematical and numeracy ideas that shape children’s lives from birth to five years. Students will develop the ability to identify, assess and plan for young children’s diverse mathematical and numeracy understandings, whilst using current curriculum frameworks and theoretical underpinnings to guide them. This subject will support students to make connections to mathematics and numeracy in everyday life, develop knowledge of effective pedagogical practices, and develop positive dispositions towards being a teacher of mathematics in the early years. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3050  Professional Practice Birth - 3 Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Students will complete a 30 day professional experience placement which includes a 10-day placement with children under the age of two years and a 20-day placement with children two – three years of age. Prior to the placement, students will engage in a series of workshops focused on developing their knowledge, skills and pedagogy. In this subject, there is a strong focus on building relationships with children, families and staff as well as adhering to work health and safety and the Australian Children’s Education and Care Quality Authority’s (ACECQA) National Quality Standard. Students will observe and assess children’s play and learning within the socio-cultural context. They will use this knowledge to create and facilitate responsive and engaging play-based experiences that extend and enrich young children’s learning. This subject requires students to apply the principles, practices and outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0). This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 2023 Engaging in Early Childhood  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3051  Creativity and Cultural Wellbeing for Communities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Creativity and cultural wellbeing explore how art making can foster individual, community wellbeing and global citizenship. Cultural wellbeing is broadly understood as the vitality of relationships between people, place and the freedom to participate in recreation, creative and cultural activities. In the practice-based modules students will experiment with art genres and reflect on how creative processes can facilitate embodiment, belonging, safe spaces for cultural expression, intergenerational wellbeing, relationship to place, creative agency and adaptability. Students will identify a social issue that is important to them or their community and apply design strategies to lead a creative community project.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 3052  Connecting with Regional, Rural and Remote Communities and Schools  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject provides an opportunity to engage with rural, remote and regional schools and communities. The subject explores the context of regional, rural and remote schools and considers how localised communities can respond to learner needs to address equity and opportunities for further academic success. The subject focuses on how teachers can create a classroom of explicit teaching pedagogy and high expectations in these diverse settings. The subject explores how technology and pedagogy can be maximised to support remote learning. Teacher resilience and career planning in these contexts is explored as part of a continuous cycle of learning, teaching and leading. There is the opportunity for a short immersion and case study in a regional context in this subject.Level: Undergraduate Level 3 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4002  Developing Primary Mathematics  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102135  The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to extend the development of mathematical concepts, skills and understandings for children from years 3 to 6 based on the Australian curriculum and the NSW Educational Standards Authority (NESA) requirements. An awareness of relevant research and curriculum documents, combined with the practical knowledge of teaching, learning and assessment strategies, will assist teachers to program and implement a series of investigative experiences that will enhance the conceptual knowledge of their students.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 2009 - Developing Primary Mathematics (AREP)  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4003  Early Literacies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102684  This subject explores the history of literacy in the early years from different theoretical perspectives and the tensions between theory, expectations and practice. It breaks down language development for diverse learners and develops students’ understanding of strategies to scaffold children’s language learning and development when working in diverse community contexts.  The subject builds on the previous subject of Critical Literacies and focuses the changing nature of literacy and the diverse literacy pathways individuals take up. Students will investigate the processes children go through when speaking, listening, reading and writing in the early years, and the interrelatedness of these processes to make meaning. Students will develop play-based, literacy-enriched experiences underpinned by contemporary literacy perspectives. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4004  Leadership in Practice
Leadership, Research and Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102687  In this subject the complexity of leadership in early childhood contexts is explored. Students will analyse leadership theories and consider how the leadership role can and does influence the quality of practitioners’ practices and Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) service provision. Students will reflect on their professional identity, values, experiences, knowledge and practices to develop a personal perspective of how effective leadership is enacted to lead staff teams and strengthen relationships. Students will also engage with the tenets of research as they investigate their own pedagogy and practice as emerging leaders of early education settings. Using an action research model to explore the processes of data collection, analysis techniques and literature review, students will have the opportunity to develop a portfolio in which they critically analyse their own practices and consider strategies to build their leadership capability and pedagogical practice. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 4009 - Professional Practice 3-5 Years  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4006  Professional Experience 4: Transition into the Profession  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102659  Students will participate in a 30-day professional experience set in the context of their future profession and under the supervision of qualified teachers. This is the final professional experience subject in your degree.  The completion of this Professional Experience recognises you as a conditionally qualified teacher.  This subject aims to recognise your shift from pre-service teacher to beginning teacher. Students will be prepared by exploring issues involved in understanding the needs of learners within specific school and classroom contexts, and will design and teach experiences in ways that will enhance student engagement and student learning outcomes.  The subject is designed to develop your professional identity and the importance of continued professional learning, the relationship between professional and community organisations in supporting educators, and how these influence student outcomes. It will build awareness of skills and practices that will help facilitate preservice teacher's personal wellbeing and resilience in their teaching career. The subject links theory and practice and enables students to construct new knowledge and new ways of practice as part of their transition into the teaching profession. In line with primary teaching specialisation requirements, your professional experience may focus on teaching, evaluating and assessing in the subject area of Science and Technology. Students are required to analyse their own learning in relation to the Graduate Teacher Standards through the completion of a Learning Portfolio and the TPA (Teaching Performance Assessment). This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 3021  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4009  Professional Practice 3-5 years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102686  The subject is the final professional experience subject in the Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), comprising a 30-day placement with children aged 3-5 years. It has a strong focus on pedagogical leadership, initiating and sustaining collaborative partnerships with staff, children and families, and implementation of integrated curriculum through effective programming and planning. The subject facilitates in-depth investigation and critical thinking, preparing students to connect to children’s social worlds and provide innovative, inclusive and meaningful learning environments. This subject requires students to apply the principles, practices and outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0). This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 3050 Professional Practice Birth – 3 years  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4010  Researching Professional Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102657  The subject is designed to develop students' skills and expertise in investigating their own teaching in Science and Technology.  The subject facilitates a researcherly disposition towards their own professional practice. Students will focus on a specific aspect of their teaching practice related to the concept of engagement and critically reflect upon their own evolving professional identity, philosophy and practice. The subject draws upon key principles and methods of participatory action research to facilitate students' skills and expertise as teacher-researchers. Students will plan an action research proposal that could be implemented in their future practice. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4011  Inclusion in the Early years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102685  Inclusion is both a right and an expectation for all children. Its effectiveness, however, depends upon teachers having the competencies, dispositions and skills to advocate for equity of access, participation and inclusion for children with a broad range of abilities within early childhood settings. In this subject, students reflect on the social construction of disability, policy and research in relation to the identification of additional needs, intervention and inclusion. Students will learn to assess curriculum and environments for learning, and to design, evaluate and communicate inclusive plans. The subject will focus on enhancing quality inclusive early childhood education through responsive adaptation and modification of the environment, curriculum and teaching practices. The importance of forming genuine partnerships with families and collaborating with the team around the child are advocated as essential for effective inclusion.  This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4012  Teaching EAL/D Students in the Primary Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102799  The 2016 ABS Census reveals that Australia is a 'fast changing, ever expanding culturally diverse nation'. One in four Australian children come from language backgrounds other than English including children born in Australia and immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers arriving in Australia each year. Many of these students will require English language learning support in the classroom. This support will vary depending on learner needs and language proficiency. The focus of this subject is to provide initial education teachers with a foundation of theoretical principles related to teaching and learning English. The emphasis will be on developing an understanding of appropriate classroom strategies within a mainstream, cross-curricula program, for learners of English as a second language including appropriate pedagogies for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 4018  Management and Administration in Early Childhood Settings  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Early childhood teachers work in complex and dynamic environments that are influenced by historical, social, cultural and political contexts. As advocates for quality children and family services that embrace social justice, inclusivity and equity, early childhood teachers must enact their ethical, legal and professional responsibilities. Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) services are similar to small businesses, requiring teachers to be knowledgeable about systems, strategies and processes to meet organisation goals and mandatory regulatory and licensing requirements. This subject builds students' foundational skills in strategic planning, policy development, staff management, conflict resolution and team building. Students will investigate effective management and administration dimensions, including human resources, marketing, financial accountability, governance and compliance processes. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education.Level: Undergraduate Level 4 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5001  Aboriginal Studies Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102873  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching Aboriginal Studies in Stages 4 and 5. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabuses and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Aboriginal Studies teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of inquiry, concepts and skills will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5002  Aboriginal and Society Studies Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102874  The subject will build on Aboriginal Studies Curriculum 1 and examine and model effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior Aboriginal Studies and Society Studies in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy and social science thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying sociological and Indigenous studies teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant sources, and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior inquiry project, and subject specific concepts will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5003  Business Studies/Commerce Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102875  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching Commerce in Stages 4 and 5. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10  Syllabuses and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Commerce teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of inquiry, concepts and skills will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5004  Business Studies/Legal Studies/Economics Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102876  The subject will build on Commerce/Business Studies Curriculum 1 and examine and model effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior Business Studies, Legal Studies and Economics in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy and historical thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Business, Economics and Legal Studies teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant sources, and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior inquiry, and subject specific concepts will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5005  English Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102863  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of English. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with English teaching in all textual forms including spoken, written and visual forms to build meaning. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying English teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research into the teaching of English and different approaches to the study of texts will be important. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5006  English Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102864  This subject extends pedagogical content knowledge about the teaching of English provided in English Curriculum 1. Responses to texts and composing meaning for communication, knowledge, enjoyment and agency for senior students is presented in this subject. Opportunities for quality literature of past and contemporary societies and engage with the literature and literary heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples is provided. The design, selection and application of pedagogical choices for senior students in lesson sequences, text selections, subject planning and assessment is the focus of the subject. Professional learning and the critical discussion of educational research in teaching English is explored. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5007  EALD Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102865  The subject will examine theories and model effective pedagogies for teaching and assessing English as an Additional Language Dialect (EALD) students in diverse classrooms. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with strategies for teaching language proficiencies in spoken and written texts. Students will learn how to teach for meaning and understanding in language forms using syntax and semantic structures such as grammar and vocabulary. The specifics of the relevant NSW and Australian English Syllabus and curriculum documents will be analysed and critiqued. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying EALD pedagogy to develop an understanding of the cultural and language barriers faced by EALD students. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5008  EALD Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102866  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching senior EALD students. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with texts and writing within EALD. Relevant Stage 6 syllabuses and Australian curriculum documents will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on the core principles underlying EALD teaching. This subject will provide opportunities for students to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts and construct authentic assessment tasks for Stage 6 students. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current EALD research particularly related to the development of cultural and linguistic capacity will be explored. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching  program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5009  Geography Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102871  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching Geography in Stages 4 and 5. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10  Syllabuses and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on the principles underlying Geography teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant geographical tools, create authentic assessment tasks, and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of geographical inquiry, concepts and skills will be presented.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5010  Geography Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102872  The subject will build on Geography Curriculum 1 and examine and model effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior Geography in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy and historical thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on the principles underlying Geography teaching to develop innovative lessons and subject planning, choose relevant geographical tools, create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior geographical inquiry, and subject specific concepts will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5011  HSIE Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102869  The subject explores the key concepts and approaches in Human Society and its Environment (HSIE) education. The subject will provide deeper opportunities to engage with inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant HSIE NSW and Australian syllabus and curriculum documents will be analysed and critiqued. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying HSIE such as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, Civics and Citizenship, sustainability and heritage. Opportunities to engage in site and field studies within HSIE will be a strong focus within the subject. The subject will comprise critical exploration of current research particularly related to the development of pedagogical inquiry and concepts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5012  HSIE Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102870  The subject build upon curriculum subjects in Human Society and its Environment (HSIE) for teaching in Stage 6. The subject will provide deeper opportunities to engage with the critical inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant HSIE NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Syllabuses will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying HSIE such as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, Civics and Citizenship, sustainability and heritage for senior students in relevant humanities and social science disciplines. Opportunities to engage in project based inquiry to support senior curriculum in HSIE will be a strong focus within the subject. The subject will comprise critical exploration of current research particularly related to the development of pedagogical inquiry and concepts for senior students. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5013  History Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102867  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching History in Stages 4 and 5. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabuses and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying History teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of historical inquiry, concepts and skills will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5014  History Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102868  The subject will build on History Curriculum 1 and examine and model effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior History in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy and historical thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years Stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Modern and Ancient History teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant sources, and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior historical inquiry, historiography, and subject specific concepts will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5015  Languages Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102889  This subject explores contemporary and differentiated approaches to teaching Languages in secondary contexts. Students will use relevant syllabus documents to develop innovative and engaging lesson plans. Students will apply a range of effective teaching strategies designed to engage a diversity of learners in a supportive classroom environment. Digital and other aural/oral resources to assess and improve learning in the discipline to develop language acquisition and cultural understanding will be explored. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of cultural capacity in Languages teaching will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5016  Languages Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102890  This subject explores contemporary and differentiated approaches to teaching Languages in senior secondary contexts and builds on Languages Curriculum 1. Students will use relevant syllabus documents to develop innovative and engaging lesson plans that cater for a range of HSC language courses and levels. Students will apply a range of effective teaching strategies designed to engage a diversity of learners in a supportive, rich and culturally responsive classroom environment. Digital and other aural/oral resources to assess and improve learning in the senior years in the discipline to develop language acquisition and cultural understanding will be explored. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of cultural capacity in Languages teaching will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5017  Languages Curriculum 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102891  In this subject, the place of Languages in secondary curriculum will be further explored using evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for teaching a range of Languages using inquiry pedagogy. They will a focus on assessment design for range of levels in Language teaching and the importance of culturally situated learning. The subject will demonstrate approaches for engaging diverse secondary learners from native speakers to beginners. Pre-service teachers will develop subject and assessment plans and demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. The subject requires students to develop original portfolio of teaching artefacts that demonstrate capacity to create and critique resources for effective teaching and learning in Languages.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5018  Languages Curriculum 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102892  This subject provides pedagogical and curriculum enrichment to the teaching of Languages and builds on methods and concepts from earlier Languages Curriculum subjects.  It explores approaches to language teaching; designing and implementing classroom language learning activities; developing the skills and knowledge to teach the language macro-skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking; classroom management; materials evaluation and selection; technological aids to language teaching/learning; reflecting on and evaluating teaching. Pre-service teachers will develop subject and assessment plans and demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. The subject requires students to develop critique resources and practices for effective teaching and learning in Languages.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5019  Mathematics Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102893  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Mathematics. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching Mathematics across strands and courses in years 7-10. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Mathematics teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant data and contexts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and inquiry based Mathematics learning will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5020  Mathematics Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102894  All students seeking a first secondary teaching area qualification must complete Years 11-12 Mathematics teaching methodology subject. The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge. The specifics of the relevant Board of Studies NSW Years 11-12 Syllabus and links with the Years 7-10 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying engaged inquiry teaching within the specific secondary subject, on creativity and quality teaching outcomes, on innovative program, subject and lesson planning and on the role of student data in authentic and appropriate assessment practices. Students will have opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to sustainability and diversity in the teaching of the specific subject area. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5021  Mathematics Curriculum 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102895  This subject enables students to extend their knowledge of Mathematics education with a particular focus on STEM in years 7-10. Students will explore their role in implementing the general capabilities of numeracy, both within the mathematics curriculum and in supporting the capable and confident use of mathematics across other learning areas at school and in society. A range of informed approaches to catering for the diverse needs of students to the middle years of schooling including intervention and appropriate challenge will be addressed. Issues in education such as Mathematics teaching for productive disposition will be explored with further professional and applied research into Mathematics education.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5022  Mathematics Curriculum 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102896  This subject enables students to extend their knowledge of Mathematics education with a particular focus on differentiated and applied syllabuses in years 11-12. Students will explore their role in implementing the general capabilities of numeracy, both within the mathematics curriculum and in supporting the capable and confident use of mathematics across society and future work. A range of informed and evidence based approaches to cater for the diverse needs and challenges of students in the senior years of schooling will be addressed. Issues in education such as Mathematics self-efficacy, critical and creative thinking will be explored with further professional and applied research into Mathematics education for senior students.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5023  Mental Health in Educational Contexts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102912  This subject is designed to promote the application and integration of current psychological and educational pedagogy, theory, evidence and best practice in supporting students who may be experiencing mental health challenges in educational settings. A problem-based approach to learning and teaching is used, employing case-based vignettes depicting various specific mental health presentations. Students are required to determine how they will develop student, classroom and curriculum level interventions to promote the wellbeing and learning of young people in educational settings. This occurs through small group work and self-directed research in which students are encouraged to utilise their prior knowledge in the topic area and identify the gaps in their knowledge as they attempt to solve the problem whilst being supported by their tutor and peers.


Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5024  Music Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102877  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching Music in Stages 4 and 5. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the performance, production and composition principles related to the discipline of Music. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10  Syllabuses and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on pedagogical content knowledge underlying Music teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts, create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of Music education. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5025  Music Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102878  The subject will build on Music Curriculum 1 and examines and models effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior Music in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with inquiry pedagogy and historical thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Music teaching to develop innovative lessons and subject planning, choose relevant tools, create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior music performance, composition and production will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5026  Music Curriculum 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102879  This subject in Music curriculum, explores in greater depth pedagogical content knowledge established in Music Curriculum 1, including general capabilities, cross-curriculum priorities and other allied materials. They will critique their prior knowledge and experience in the field and how these connect with the scope of the curriculum, identifying opportunities, challenges and responsibilities of Music teaching. Pre-service teachers will explore extended theoretical frameworks associated with teaching and learning in Music education. They will learn evidence-based approaches to plan for effective teaching and learning, including embedded literacy and numeracy, and the use of digital technologies. They will learn approaches for engaging learners and to meet the learning needs of diverse students. They will learn to compose good questions, arrange music compositions and analyse music forms and concepts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5027  Music Curriculum 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102880  This subject will explore the discipline of Music education in contemporary Australian society, and the senior secondary Music extension curriculum. The subject will investigate current evidence-based approaches for curriculum development for quality teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for building knowledge and praxis  of Music. They will learn approaches for engaging adolescent learners and differentiate the curriculum in the senior secondary years. They will further develop skills to shape the dialogic talk of the classroom. Pre-service teachers will formulate subject and assessment plans in order to demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. They will develop teaching resources  for effective teaching and learning and to link with curriculum. They will critique curriculum implementation in current socio-cultural school contexts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5028  PDHPE Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102885  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Personal Development, Health and Physical Education (PDHPE). The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching PDHPE across health and practical skills strands in years 7-10. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles such as games-sense theory that inform PDHPE teaching. This subject will develop current and applied skills in innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant data and contexts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and health based learning will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5029  PDHPE Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102886  This subject explores contemporary and differentiated approaches to teaching Personal Development, Health and Physical Education (PDHPE) in senior secondary contexts and builds on PDHPE Curriculum 1. Students will use relevant syllabus documents to develop innovative and engaging lesson plans that cater for a range of senior learners. Students will apply a range of effective teaching strategies designed to engage a diversity of learners in a supportive, safe and culturally responsive classroom environment. Digital and practical resources to assess and improve learning in the senior years in the discipline will be developed. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of Health Education will be explored. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5030  PDHPE Curriculum 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102887  In this subject, pre-service teachers will consider the place of Health education in contemporary Australian society and explore programs in Physical Activity and Sports Studies (PASS). They will explore a range of evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment in PASS and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for building knowledge of Health education and how to provide constructive feedback and reporting. This subject will require students to engage in teaching practical skills in areas such as sport, recreational, combat games, physical fitness activities and physical activity for remediation and therapy.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5031  PDHPE Curriculum 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102888  In this subject, pre-service teachers will consider the place of Health education in contemporary Australian society and explore senior programs in Community and Family Studies (CAFS) and Sport Lifestyle and Recreation Studies (CEC). They will explore a range of evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment in CAFS and CEC and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for building knowledge of Health education and how to provide constructive feedback and reporting. This subject will require students to engage in teaching wellbeing, positive relationships, responsible care and appreciation for diversity and interdependence in community contexts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5032  Science Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102897  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Science. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching Science across strands and programs in years 7-10. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Science teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choosing relevant data and contexts to create authentic assessment tasks and applying consistent feedback for student learning. There will be a focus on the development of laboratory skills and techniques including aspects of general and mandatory safety requirements. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and inquiry-based Science learning will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5033  Science Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102898  The subject will explore senior Science curriculum to develop pre-service teachers' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Science across Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Environment and Physics. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching Science across a range of programs in years 11-12. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Science Syllabus will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Science teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant data and contexts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. There will be a focus on the development of laboratory skills and techniques including aspects of general and mandatory safety requirements. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and inquiry-based Science learning will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5034  Science Curriculum 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102899  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Science related to STEM. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching STEM projects connected to Science across strands and programs in years 7-10. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus, STEM Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Science and STEM teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant data and contexts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. There will be a focus on the development of laboratory skills and techniques including aspects of general and mandatory safety requirements. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and inquiry-based Science learning will be presented.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5035  Science Curriculum 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102900  The subject will explore senior Science curriculum to develop pre-service teachers' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Investigating Science and Science Extension. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching interdisciplinary Science. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Investigating Science and Science Extension teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant data and contexts to create authentic inquiry project based assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. There will be a focus on the development of laboratory skills within the context of Investigating Science and techniques including aspects of general and mandatory safety requirements. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and inquiry-based Science learning in Science Extension will be explored in depth.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5036  Technology Curriculum 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102881  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge. The specifics of the relevant Technology Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying engaged inquiry teaching within the specific secondary subject, on creativity and quality teaching outcomes, on innovative program, subject and lesson planning and on the role of data in authentic and appropriate assessment practices. Students will investigate and discuss current research particularly related to sustainability and diversity in the teaching of specific technology areas. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5037  Technology Curriculum 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102882  The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge. The specifics of the relevant Board of Studies NSW Years 11-12 Syllabuses in Technology Key Learning Area and links with the Years 7-10 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying engaged inquiry teaching within the specific secondary subject, on creativity and quality teaching outcomes, on innovative program, subject and lesson planning and on the role of student data in authentic and appropriate assessment practices. Students will have opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to sustainability and diversity in the teaching of the specific subject area. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5038  Technology Curriculum 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102883  In this subject, the place of Technology and applied STEM in secondary curriculum will be further explored using evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for teaching a range of Technologies using STEM pedagogy. They will focus on assessment design for project and problem-based learning. The subject will demonstrate approaches for engaging diverse senior secondary learners. Pre-service teachers will develop subject and assessment plans and demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. The subject requires students to develop original portfolio of teaching artefacts that demonstrate capacity to create and critique resources for effective teaching and learning in Technology.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5039  Technology Curriculum 4  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102884  In this subject, the place of Technology Curricula in senior secondary will be further explored using evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for teaching a range of Technologies and how to provide constructive feedback and reporting connected to project and problem-based learning. The subject will demonstrate approaches for engaging diverse senior secondary learners. Pre-service teachers will develop subject and assessment plans and demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. The subject requires students to develop original portfolio of teaching artefacts that demonstrate capacity to create and critique resources for effective teaching and learning in Technology.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7027 ANDTEAC 7004 ANDTEAC 7032  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5040  Digital Literacies in Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject will introduce, develop and apply innovative digital literacy skills needed to be successful in the teaching profession. The subject will address digital literacy as a multidimensional skill-set covering domains related to: i) searching, accessing, analysing, and critically evaluating information; ii) communicating and sharing information; iii) creating digital products; iv) safety, and v) problem-solving. The subject will focus on the digital learner, instructional design in digital contexts, e-safety, social media, intellectual property and legal implications for teachers. The subject will assess the critical analysis, creation and application of digital literacy skills for teachers as determined by the Australian Professional Teaching Standards. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching  program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5041  Career Education Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject introduces students to core knowledge and skills necessary to prepare others to follow their career/work aspirations. By examining labour market information, identifying relevant support organisations and services students will be able to apply career development theories, concepts, research, and associated models and frameworks to provide career planning that is sensitive and respectful of an individual’s capabilities and barriers to work. This subject also introduces students to methods to evaluate the advice and services which they provide.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 5042  Supporting Career and Education Aspirations  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject introduces students to the core knowledge and skills necessary to support career and education aspirations through professional practice as a career advisor. The subject examines theoretical perspectives on career aspirations, empirical research into the development of aspirations, strategies to support the aspirations of specific populations, and skills to identify the strengths, values, and interests of those participating in career education.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7001  Aboriginal & Culturally Responsive Pedagogies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102085  In this subject students will be introduced to research, perspectives and practices associated with successful and culturally appropriate curriculum and pedagogy for teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adolescent students. The subject is informed by current research practices, policy developments and curriculum deliverables that require culturally appropriate, responsive, respectful and informed teaching and learning practices that will benefit all education participants. Students will gain knowledge, insight, skills and appreciation of the importance and implications of consultation, negotiation and two-way partnerships with local Aboriginal communities and schools. It will also focus on empowering students to effectively reflect on all aspects of inquiry-based teaching with respect to Aboriginal perspectives and the delivery of lessons and effective support to all secondary students. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching  program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 ANDTEAC 7032 ANDTEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7002  Addressing Diversity in Mathematics Teaching and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102322  In this subject students will apply their knowledge of curriculum and pedagogy to address diversity within the primary mathematics classroom. Students will explore strategies to address a broad range of learning needs incorporating gifted and talented students, students from diverse cultural backgrounds including Aboriginal students and students with additional needs including dyscalculia. Other issues such as gender and mathematics for English as an Additional Language Learners (EALD) will be investigated.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7003  Addressing Diversity in Science Teaching and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102486  The purpose of this subject is for students to develop knowledge of science teaching for primary aged children of science with additional needs and diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds. Students will explore a range of needs, including gender issues with science learning, EAL/D backgrounds, learning difficulties, and gifted and talented abilities, and identify strategies to respond to those needs with specific instructional plans. In addition, students will learn to implement culturally relevant and context-based pedagogies in primary science education.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7004  Adolescent Development and Teaching  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102081  From 2024, this subject is replaced by TEAC 7161 - Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching. This subject examines research and contemporary classroom practice relevant to the cognitive, physiological, and social/affective needs of adolescents to highlight the reciprocal effects that teaching has on adolescence and how in turn adolescence affects teaching practice. Emphasis is placed on the use of evidenced-based literature in examining adolescent-centred challenges to teaching and learning. Topics addressed include definitions of adolescence past, present and future, biological and cognitive milestones of adolescence, adolescents at-risk, secondary schooling fostering educational and general resilience in adolescents, and helping adolescents thrive.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7005  Advanced Academic English Skills  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102325  This is a language-analysis intensive subject with practical application for real situational English language teaching. It offers students theoretical overviews of language analysis, from the sentential-clausal-lexical-grammatical level to highly contextualised discourse study. It requires students to engage with a variety of real-life instances of language use while also investigating the potentialities of extensive linguistic repertoires. By exposing students to both the realities of actual language use and the possibilities inherent in varieties of English, students are better prepared for the demands of English (second and foreign) language teaching across multiple contexts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7010  Assessing to Support Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102147  Professionals' knowledge and skill in assessment supports the identification, planning, monitoring and evaluation of their work with individuals with additional needs. Assessment not only applies to assessing the needs of the individual, but extends to identifying the needs of the family and the educational setting. This subject explores various models of assessment (and their underlying theory and implications for practice). Various approaches are investigated that are utilised to elucidate a range of educational needs across the lifespan by a range of professionals (e.g. functional, standardised, diagnostic, strengths-based, curriculum-based). Students apply problem-based learning by selecting and critiquing assessment strategies to inform the goals, educational instruction and adjustments, and progress for an individual, their family and educational setting.  Students also develop skills in communicating with colleagues and families regarding issues around assessment.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7011  Assessment and Intervention for Mathematics and Numeracy Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102324  A significant aspect of teachers' work is focused on assessment and mathematics classrooms are renowned for their traditional reliance on pen and paper testing. In this subject students will investigate contemporary formative and summative assessment practices of and for learning mathematics. Students will investigate how to use results from assessments including NAPLAN to plan teaching and learning, and provide intervention where appropriate. A range of intervention programs used in Australian schools will be explored and compared.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7012  Assessment and Intervention for Science Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102488  The purpose of this subject is for students to be informed of different types of diagnostic, formative, and summative assessment strategies used in primary science contexts.  Examination of assessment methods and resources will help teachers develop a comprehensive philosophy of assessment in primary science.  Students will develop skills in adapting instructional subjects to incorporate a research-based assessment system, become familiar with strategies to analyse assessment data, and design interventions in response to assessment data.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7013  At the cultural interface - learning two ways  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102165  From 2020 students should note that core units are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. History, politics and ignorance make the cultural interface between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians contested and fraught. In turn, cultural misunderstanding contributes to inequities in educational attainment, employment and social disadvantage. Students apply a critical perspective to the discourses surrounding Aboriginal disadvantage and white privilege. They develop processes to engage respectfully with local Aboriginal and Islander communities in order to learn and share in a two-way exchange of knowledge. They listen deeply and intersubjectively in their exploration of Aboriginal worldviews, and they reflect on what it means to decolonise their own thinking so as to build partnerships based on mutuality and reciprocity.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7015  Children, Families, Communities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102102  The subject examines the implications of children’s early life experiences on their development, learning, health and wellbeing. Students will analyse cross-disciplinary research, policy and discourses associated with children and families living in communities experiencing disadvantage and the impact of adverse and positive childhood experiences on children’s life trajectories. An opportunity to learn from professionals working in community programs will be invaluable when students in groups design and present programs that strengthens communities' and families’ capacities to provide nurturant environments for children. Students will reflect on the complex interrelationship between collaboration, research and practice to identify their role as community leaders working in and with communities. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7036 - Early Intervention and Prevention in Early Childhood Contexts  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7018  Computational Thinking across the STEM Curriculum  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102509  This subject will enable students to develop knowledge of computational thinking as it can be applied across the STEM curriculum in schools. Students will learn about the nature of computational thinking as a problem solving approach which can be applied to produce digital solutions. The subject will allow students to undertake a critical examination of innovative, interdisciplinary approaches to the development of computational thinking and relevant pedagogical strategies to maximise student learning and engagement with STEM disciplines.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7020  Contemporary Teacher Leadership  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102098  This multidisciplinary subject seeks to redefine and inform practice about what it means to be part of teacher-led development in the 21st century. Students will need to develop unique skills and understanding necessary for creating, sustaining and expanding communities of practice within and beyond classrooms. Through an examination of relevant literature connected with local and global networks, students will build, an understanding of cultural assets; professional leadership capacity; and what is required to effect change, leadership and innovation in school culture through teaching and learning innovations and program evaluation. Learning outcomes are based on learning about leadership within an established community of practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): -  Co-requisite(s): -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7022  Creative Teaching and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102105  This subject focuses on processes of creative thinking and creative expression in children and introduces students to the theory and practices of using drama, music, dance, media arts and visual arts in prior to school and school contexts. Arts-based pedagogies, collaborative learning, multiple modes of learning and reflective practices are the key operating principles of the subject. The subject will encompass creativity both as it relates to the arts as well as its critical role in fostering creative thinking and teaching and learning practices. Students will explore the relevance of the arts in the development of children's play and will engage with appropriate information and communication technologies for learning in the arts. The subject provides an understanding of the importance of the art forms both as pedagogical approaches across the early childhood and primary years and as creative arts in their own right. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7045 - Fostering Creativity in Children’s Learning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7023  Culture, Subjectivities and Schooling  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102071  From 2024, this subject is replaced by TEAC 7032 Diversity, Social Justice and Schooling. This subject focuses on the socio-political, economic and cultural milieu that shapes teacher and student subjectivities. Teachers are required to understand the variety of, and changing nature of, discourses and ideologies that both constitute and are constituted in society, schooling, teaching, and learning, in an increasingly multifaceted, globalized and cosmopolitan environment. Within this framework it is also essential that teachers engage with and understand the diversity and fluidity of individuals and the broader Australian community in order to promote equitable practices in schooling and to facilitate educational and professional transformation. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and their relationship to schooling will also be explored in this subject, providing pre-service teachers with deeper understandings of Australia's first nations people. Developing understandings of society, culture and the formation of subjectivities will promote an enhanced awareness of equity issues as well as crucial analytical and critical tools to address the needs of diverse students, their families, teachers, and the broader school community.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7039 - Education Knowledge Society and Change  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7026  Designing Curriculum Futures  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102159  This subject considers the research and theoretical basis of curriculum futures, with a focus on design for learning and learning design, and critically examines contextual factors and their implications for learning design in a range of settings. The subject provides a critical overview of perspectives on curriculum, curriculum design and examines authentic learning and assessment. Examples of curriculum futures will be negotiated and explicated. The overall focus is on curriculum decision-making and planning for improved learning outcomes.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7024 - Curriculum Futures  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7027  Designing Teaching and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102086  In this unit, students will explore a range of contemporary issues impacting upon adolescent learning in the 21st century and how those issues may be addressed through the thoughtful re-design of teaching and learning. In a future characterised by rapid change and re-conceptualisations of compulsory schooling, attention will be given to the role of the secondary school teacher in assisting their students to develop new ways to think and new ways to work, as well as acquiring new tools and skills for living and working in the 21st century. Students will be encouraged to articulate their own vision for sustainable and engaged secondary education appropriate to the first half of the 21st century. In particular, it is critical that students possess the capacity to develop secondary students' abilities to engage in real world problem solving and collaborate meaningfully through emerging technologies.  Students will collect evidence in an e-portfolio to demonstrate they meet the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the graduate level. Students begin their e-portfolio in 102086 Designing Teaching and Learning and continue to collect evidence throughout their Master of Teaching (Secondary) course.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7081 - Pedagogies in Practice TEAC 7080 - Pedagogies for Learning CART 1003 -  Literacies for Learning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7029  Disability in Context  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102156  The developmental trajectory and quality of life of individuals with additional needs is affected not only by the nature and level of the disability itself but also by the ways in which that disability interacts with the contexts in which they live their lives. In turn, the impact of the disability will affect the individual’s family and those working with them. This subject adopts both a developmental and ecological perspective to enable analysis of the specific impact of disability on an individual, their family, the professionals working with them and the contexts in which they do so. In so doing, it evaluates the efficacy of theoretical models and frameworks available to assist in ensuring best outcomes for the individual and those around them.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must successfully complete TEAC 3013 before enrolling in this subject  Equivalent Subjects: HUMN 7046 - Transformative Leadership  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7030  Diverse Literacies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102101  This subject increases students' understandings of the impact of globalisation, new technologies and the diversity of Australian languages and dialects on children’s literacy practices. Students will develop insights into the importance of languages and cultures in children’s identity formation, particularly in relation to the importance of the home languages and/or dialects, for multilingual and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. Contemporary social theories of diversity, difference, literacy and languages learning will be introduced to students and the links between theory and practice will be applied. Students will investigate the literacy practices in diverse family and community contexts and apply literacy-enriched play and pedagogies to extend languages learning and literacy for all children. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7046 - Global Literacies TEAC 1026 - Multiliteracies  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7032  Diversity, Social Justice and Schooling  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102083  This subject focuses on the socio-political, economic and cultural milieu that shapes teacher and student subjectivities. It explores diversity, social justice, equity, and schooling through the multi-layered operation of social power and privilege. It advances students’ understanding of how social and cultural difference in Australia has shaped contemporary education, schooling and cross-cultural relationships. In particular, the subject examines diversity as a social construct that has promoted the differential treatment of particular social and cultural groups and served as the basis for response to subsequent social and cultural inequities by these groups. The subject engages students in critical analysis essential for professional pedagogical practice in education for diversity and social justice in Australia and beyond. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7023  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7037  Early Learning Environments  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102622  Learning occurs within the context of a dynamic global society that has important cultural, social, historical and environmental dimensions. Students will explore a range of theoretical perspectives and pedagogical approaches that support learning about human society and its environment including areas of history, geography, civics and citizenship and sustainability for children in early childhood and primary school settings. Policies and frameworks around risk and play will be explored. First Nations’ perspectives and inclusive pedagogies that support equality and diversity will be examined. Through a 35 hours (equivalent of 5 days) placement at an early childhood setting, students will evaluate the relationship between childhood environments and children’s experience of place and everyday learning. Students will design learning experiences that support children’s investigation, discovery, problem solving and meaning making using a range of materials and texts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7038  Working Mathematically 1: Exploring Connections  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102603  This subject develops students’ critical understandings of how numeracy and mathematical ideas shape young children’s lives during their first eight years. Students will develop their ability to provide rich learning experiences that enhance and assess the development of children’s numeracy and foundational mathematical concepts. The subject will foster positive dispositions towards teaching and applying mathematics and numeracy in educational settings for children using the Early Years Learning Framework for Australia, the Australian Curriculum and the NSW Mathematics K-10 Syllabus curriculum documents. It will also consider the literacy demands of Mathematics. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1111 - Mathematics Science  Technology 0-8 TEAC 7060 - Investigating with Mathematics Science and Technology  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7041  Effective Working Relationships  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102146  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject supports the development of students' knowledge and skills by analysing a range of consultation models; examining the perspectives and needs of families as well as professionals from different discipline backgrounds; and developing effective interpersonal communication skills, collaborative problem solving, dispute resolution, teamwork and teambuilding.  In addition, professionals with advanced knowledge of inclusive education and disability studies may serve as agents of change within their professional setting. The subject explores this role and encourages students to reflect upon how they may enact this ability to advocate inclusive education and facilitate the capacity of others.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7043  Engaging Communities  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102148  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. Community engagement is variously seen as a strategy for improving educational outcomes, increasing community ownership and/or empowering citizens to take collective action. Although appeals to ‘community’ often assume a homogeneous ideal, active community engagement needs to respond to a diversity of needs and experiences. This subject begins by exploring the notion of community, its uses and meanings in different discursive and professional contexts. Students will be introduced to theory and praxis aimed at identifying community needs, partnering across diversity and working effectively and inclusively to build community strengths and engagement. The subject’s applied learning focus requires students to develop and implement a community engagement strategy for a selected setting.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7044  English Linguistics for TESOL  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101825  This subject provides students with a linguistics background, including English grammar, necessary to excel in English language teaching and assessment. Encompassing the areas of syntax, semantics, morphology, phonology and phonetics, the subject equips students with the technical vocabulary of linguistics and pedagogical grammar as well as the analytical skills necessary to identify and describe both the English language and patterns of performance by second and bilingual language learners. These foundational skills prepare students for success in language teaching, assessment and second language research.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7051  Inclusive Environments  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102149  Significant reform has occurred over the last three decades with regard to educating individuals with additional needs. This subject explores the history and current position on disability as well as philosophy, policy, legislation, and practice around educating individuals with additional needs internationally.  The research literature examining the benefits and barriers to inclusive education will be analysed.  Students will develop skills of critical review required to evaluate the research in the field. Lastly, the subject addresses the ways in which educational settings can be designed to be more responsive to learners with additional needs and how students can promote inclusion through organisational change.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must successfully complete TEAC 3013 before enrolling in this subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7057  Becoming an Exemplary Teacher  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101899  This subject empowers aspiring educators to excel as exemplary teachers in today's educational landscape. It explores the historical and contemporary social, cultural, and political influences on early childhood and primary education. Students critically examine the evolving role of teachers, focusing on factors contributing to responsive teaching and quality learning experiences. Emphasizing inclusivity and support for learners, the subject fosters critical reflection about teaching practice to prepare students for their future roles in education. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching  program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7061  Leadership and Management  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102108  This subject explores the complex socio-political context of early childhood and school education.  It will focus on the knowledge and skills related to effective management, leadership and advocacy in the education sector. This subject will engage students in review of the legal, ethical and professional accountabilities of teachers.   Effective leadership and management theories, models and practices of quality educational providers will be evaluated.  Students will also examine strategies for advocacy and building partnerships with families and communities. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7073 Managing Child and Family Services  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7063  Leadership, Mentoring and Professional Growth  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 100701  Becoming a professional is a complex and intricate process. Beyond adequate initial training (both theoretical and the implementation of theory into practice) it takes a commitment and undertaking to career-long learning and professional development. Such commitment and undertaking need not be an isolated process. Educational leaders are available to assist in the promotion of professional development. This subject provides leaders with the understandings and strategies for implementing mentoring and professional development programs.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7065  Leading Mathematics in the Primary School  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102323  This subject provides an in-depth exploration of the required mathematics knowledge for primary teaching and for leading other teachers in their professional learning. Students will explore and further develop their pedagogical content knowledge, applying it to the primary mathematics curriculum. They will develop a deep understanding of specific mathematical content, the ways in which children learn that content and appropriate, research based pedagogies.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7067  Leading Science in the Primary School  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102487  The purpose of this subject is for students to engage in leadership practices and theory associated with an expert primary science teacher. Students will evaluate curriculum resources and consider strategies for integrating science with other disciplines in primary teaching contexts. Students will develop their capacity for leading science professional learning experiences and innovation to other educators.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7068  Learning and Teaching in Challenging Contexts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102158  This subject involves the study of pedagogy in contexts regarded as ‘challenging’. The main focus will usually be on the contexts of school and early childhood, but alternative sites of education will also be studied as appropriate. The definition of a challenging context will be considered with an emphasis on contexts of poverty. Students will undertake a critical analysis of policies and practices that impact and respond to challenging contexts. The subject is structured around the investigation of dilemmas and specific provocations, and explores engaging pedagogies for education.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7071  Literacy Connections 1: Understanding and Creating  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101803  In this subject, students investigate processes of speaking, listening, reading, writing, viewing, representing and critical thinking. The subject focuses on teaching children from birth to 8 years, with a focus on strategies that support emergent literacy. Strategies to support children with English as an additional language or dialect will be explored. Students will learn how to support children’s effective communication and teach children in the early stages of reading and writing. The key literacy elements of oral language, concepts of print, phonological and phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary and comprehension will be addressed. It also focuses on the role of the teacher in assessing children’s language and literacy learning, and planning intentional learning experiences to extend learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Co-requisite(s): -  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1112 - Literacy 0-8  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7072  Managing Challenging and Diverse Behaviour  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102151  This subject provides professionals with the skills to successfully and systemically manage challenging behaviours exhibited by individuals in classrooms, early childhood, or other educational settings. This subject will focus on managing critical features of the environment to encourage positive behaviours and prevent challenging behaviours from occurring. Intervention strategies are also developed to address significant negative behavioural challenges when preventative measures are ineffective. Professionals will develop competencies in identifying and analysing problem behaviours and designing suitable management plans. Such skills will be helpful to either professionals working directly with individuals with additional needs, or as consultants supporting those who provide direct support to individuals with challenging and diverse behaviours.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7014 - Behaviour Management  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7074  Mathematics for Contemporary Learners  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102321  In this subject students will explore issues relating to the teaching and learning of mathematics in the contemporary primary classroom. These issues will include promoting positive dispositions of learners, engaging pedagogies and developing creative and critical thinking for critical numeracy. Students will explore theory relating to the integration of information and communication technologies in the mathematics classroom including the development of teachers' Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK).Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7076  Multicultural Nonverbal Communication  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102283  This subject introduces students to the interdisciplinary fields of linguistics, communication and cultural semiotics. It builds links between these areas of studies and beyond, which provide students with knowledge of how human beings use nonverbal communication systems and channels to achieve effective communication in intercultural and multicultural contexts. This subject covers three key perspectives, including paralinguistics, proxemics and kinesics. Authentic audio and visual materials are used to facilitate students' awareness of the multidimensional process in which people communicate verbally and nonverbally simultaneously. It also helps enhance their sensitivity when they interact with people from diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7082  Pedagogy for Positive Learning Environments  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102082  This subject is designed to promote the application and integration of current psychological and educational theory, evidence, and best practices in creating positive learning environments for the purposes of learning, behaviour, and wellbeing. The subject provides a thorough understanding of theoretical and empirical perspectives on behaviour management as they apply to Australian contexts. Skill development will be encouraged through interactive tutorial activities and exercises. Areas of content include: theoretical and empirical foundations of expectation/rules setting and routines; proactive practices in positive behaviour support; student engagement theory; relational pedagogy; using data to inform behaviour management strategies; and whole school approaches to manage behaviour and wellbeing. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7161  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7086 - Positive Learning Environments TEAC 7113 - Psychology for Teaching TEAC 7141 - Teaching and Learning in Classrooms  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7083  People, Place and Pedagogy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102106  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject will provide students with the opportunity to explore key concepts of learning and teaching in the curriculum areas of social studies, history, geography, place studies, civics and citizenship, economics, sustainability and environmental education and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies in early childhood and primary education. The subject will encourage pre-service educators to develop their philosophy and practice of teaching and learning, particularly within the contexts of a rapidly changing and dynamic human global culture that has significant cultural, historical, social and environmental dimensions. The subject will cover a broad, complex and engaging field of study reflecting that people are social beings who interact with one another and with the natural and social environments through and over time. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, socio-cultural influences and place-based pedagogies will be investigated, and relevant policy and regulation documents around risk, play and pedagogy will be examined.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7084  Person-Centred Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102166  The shift in educational policy and legislation to one of inclusion has been accompanied by a move to models of service delivery which are person- and family-centred and which also recognise the need for tiers in intervention. Whilst the range of service delivery models currently operating across educational and community settings for varied levels of need and developmental stages will be explored and evaluated, emphasis will be given to person-centred practice. Through an analysis of the literature encompassing both evidence-based practice and practice-based evidence students will evaluate the implications of the model for individuals, families, teachers, other professionals, schools, services, their own practice and for systems practice.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must successfully complete TEAC 3013 before enrolling in this subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7087  Pedagogical Leadership: Critically Reflective Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102107  In this subject, students use the conceptual frame of pedagogical leadership to examine discourses of leadership and pedagogy in early childhood settings to re-shape practice. The principles and practices of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia are used as a basis for critical reflection on the student’s own practice and areas for ongoing learning and change. Students will develop their research skills and capacity to lead pedagogy by engaging in critical analysis of current research and evolving theories of leadership to design and undertake an action research project. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 7103  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7042 -  Engaging Children in Curriculum  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7088  Primary Creative Arts  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101585  This subject introduces students to pedagogical theory and practices in the four diverse art forms of Dance, Drama, Music, and Visual Arts in the primary classroom.  The subject provides practical knowledge, skills and understandings of the importance of all four art forms both as powerful teaching and learning strategies across the primary curriculum and as the creative arts in their own right for pre-service teachers. This subject builds students' capabilities to demonstrate creativity when teaching, empathy with diverse groups of student learners, a commitment to socially just schools and classrooms and an understanding of artistic processes. This subject will give students an understanding of the role of aesthetics, imagination and play in learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7089  Primary English and Literacy 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101579  This subject is designed to explore key concepts associated with the teaching of the English Key Learning Area in the K-6 years, set in the broader context of a contemporary new literacies environment. It will examine the processes involved in the teaching of English with a focus on effective pedagogical practices, responsive teaching and explicit and systematic teaching of phonics and reading traditional print-based literacies and multiliteracies. Students will investigate teaching, learning, assessment and the key processes and components of learning to read using a range of factual and literary texts, involving every day and specialised knowledge for a range of readers/viewers. Students will be introduced to children’s literature and authentic texts for the development of students’ reading skills and abilities. Students will develop understandings of effective pedagogy and practice within the area of K-6 English and investigate the NSW English K-10 (focus on K-6) syllabus. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. 
Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7090  Primary English and Literacy 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101586  This subject is designed to provide a comprehensive account of the teaching of spoken, written and multimodal texts in the primary years of schooling.  Students gain an understanding of different theories related to producing texts in a range of modes for different purposes. They investigate a range of written and multimodal genres, their textual structures and grammar and learn to apply these in planning and teaching in mainstream, English as an Additional Language or Dialect (EAL/D) and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander contexts, gaining a critical awareness of varying pedagogic approaches. Students will develop skills in pedagogy and practice, including next practice, within English & Literacy for K-6 students. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the program can be applied in this subject and Professional Experience subjects. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7091  Primary Health and Physical Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102072  This subject is designed to explore the content and pedagogies of Health and Physical Education (HPE) in the NSW primary curriculum. Students will develop an experiential understanding of the pedagogy of HPE. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the course can be applied in this subject and Professional Experience subjects. In this subject students will also continue to develop their research skills. This subject aims to develop teachers who demonstrate empathy with diverse groups of student learners and commitment to socially just schools and classrooms. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7095 -  Primary Personal Development Health and Physical Education  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7092  Primary Human Society and its Environment  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101582  Human Society and Its Environment focuses on History, Geography and three cross-curriculum priority areas in: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and cultures; Asia and Australia's engagement with Asia; and Sustainability. As a key learning area in the K-6 curriculum HSIE provides opportunities for students to develop knowledge, understanding and skills in the subject matter, as well as proficiency in teaching inquiry learning approaches. In History, key concepts of changes in family history and local history are explored and Australia's history and understanding Australia as a Nation are explored through the relationships between the individual and the state, and the values and mutual responsibilities, and obligations for civil, political and social participation in Australian society. In Geography, concepts that develop a sense of curiosity about environments, peoples, cultures and place, in both Australia and the world are a priority. The subject emphasises pedagogy and lesson design for high possibility classrooms that specifically address the literacy and technology general capabilities. The subject also focuses on inquiry, place and project based learning which engages diverse groups of learners, develops their understanding about local and global communities, and prepares them to become informed and active citizens who contribute to the quality of Australian society. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7093  Primary Mathematics and Numeracy 1  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101580  The subject will develop students’ understandings of children’s construction of mathematical and numeracy concepts during the years from Kindergarten to Year 2. The subject will model explicit numeracy instruction and scaffolding of numerical, spatial, graphical, statistical, and algebraic domains. Students will develop their ability to assess young children’s mathematical understandings and numeracy development. The subject will explore how to create learning experiences for diverse learners, incorporating investigations and digital technologies to enhance the growth of children’s mathematical thinking. Students will interrogate the NSW Mathematics K-10 Syllabus, with a focus on Kindergarten to Year 2, and with a particular emphasis on the Working Mathematically strand. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7094  Primary Mathematics and Numeracy 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101584  This subject builds on the subject Primary Mathematics and Numeracy 1 with a focus on learners from Year 3 to Year 6, and assumes students have gained familiarity with the knowledge, skills and understandings children required across all strands of the NSW Mathematics K-10 Syllabus, with a focus on Year 3 to Year 6, including the Working Mathematically components. The subject will model explicit numeracy instruction and scaffolding of numerical, spatial, graphical, statistical, and algebraic domains. In this subject, students develop their understanding of primary mathematics in the mid to upper primary years, with a strong emphasis on aspects of teaching such as student engagement, assessment, differentiation for diversity and the integration of technology. By engaging with this subject, students will have the opportunity to experience, plan and assess a broad range of practices to enhance learning outcomes and improve engagement with mathematics. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7099  Primary Science & Technology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101583  This subject will focus on developing scientific and technological pedagogical content knowledge appropriate for teaching science and technology for students in the K-6 years. It models appropriate pedagogical and pedagogical content knowledge. Students use collaborative social learning situations to develop content knowledge, along with interpersonal and communication skills. The pedagogies modelled will be inclusive and demonstrate how scientific and technological learning experiences can be developed to cater for the needs of the diverse groups of student learners in primary schools. Students learn about engaging science and technology activities that empower primary school students and create futures for students where the capacity to engage with and critically evaluate scientific and technological activity will become increasingly necessary. Students focus on themselves as learners and reflect on the implications of their learning and the learning of others in their future professional practice. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7100  Principles and Practices of Evaluation  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102168  This subject provides opportunities to examine and apply evaluation strategies to assess and evaluate learning, educational and social programs and policies. Theories drawn from evaluation will be used to assist students to develop evaluative frameworks and approaches to critically evaluating programs.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1545 - Evaluating Learning Programs  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7101  Professional Experience (Additional Needs)  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102153  This subject provides students with an opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills about teaching students with additional needs to a real-life classroom. In turn, this authentic learning experience enriches their future professional growth and capacity to support individuals with additional needs. Students complete a practicum and, where appropriate, a series of field visits and observations, within an educational setting, that supports individuals with additional needs. The placement will be completed in the student's area of specialisation in an early childhood, primary, secondary or other relevant setting. Students are able to demonstrate a range of skills in planning, implementing and evaluating educational programs for students with additional needs that optimise learning outcomes and inclusion.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: LGYA 1090 - Professional Practice in Context  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7103  Professional Experience 3 - 5 Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102110  This subject incorporates theoretical aspects of teaching with a compulsory 30 day placement with children aged 3-5 years, to provide students with opportunities to reflect on their teaching skills and build capacity as emerging educational leaders. In this capstone early childhood professional experience, students build their professional capacity to take the day to day responsibility for the learning, development, health and wellbeing of a group of children, in collaboration with supervising staff. Students will work collegially with staff and families to design, implement and evaluate an inclusive curriculum that engages children with investigative and critical thinking that connects to children’s social worlds. The subject requires students to apply the principles, practices and outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years’ Learning Framework for Australia together with understanding of curriculum content (in the areas of Language, Literacy and Communication, Mathematics, Science and Technology, Creative Arts, Human Society and Physical Development, Health and Wellbeing). Students will complete an early childhood focused Teaching Performance Assessment in this subject. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7104  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 7087  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7035 - Early Childhood Professional Experience 2 TEAC 2051 - Professional Portfolio  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7104  Professional Experience Birth - 2 Years  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102109  In this subject student engage with theory and practice to develop an understanding of quality environments for children Birth – 2 years in early childhood education and care settings. This subject incorporates a 25 day supervised placement with a strong focus on supporting children’s health and wellbeing through the building of relationships with children, staff, and children’s families in care settings. Students will apply their knowledge of work health and safety and the Australian Children’s Education and Care Quality Authority’s National Quality Standards as they develop and demonstrate responsive caregiving and educational practices. Students will apply knowledge of young children's learning and development and develop their skills in observation and assessment, planning, implementing and reflecting on engaging experiences that respond to children’s family and community experiences and funds of knowledge. During the placement students will spend a minimum of 10 days working with children under 2 years. Students will present evidence of their developing capacity as teachers during an EXPO at the conclusion of placement. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7147  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7034 - Early Childhood Professional Experience 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7106  Professional Experience K - 6  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102111  Students will design and teach lessons and units of work in ways that enhance student engagement and learning outcomes making relevant links with NSW Education Standards Authority syllabus documents. This professional experience subject supports students to meet the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the graduate level by focusing on developing professional knowledge, effective pedagogical practices, responsive teaching, classroom management and engagement in the primary school context. The subject also gives students opportunities to reflect on their own teaching and learning, and to achieve professional goals. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7103  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7096 - Primary Professional Experience  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7108  Professional Practice Community Engagement  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102605  Professional Practice Community Engagement is a Professional Experience subject of the Master of Teaching (Secondary), incorporating a five-day or 30 hours academic service learning placement and is designed to develop sustainable practical knowledge and skills that supplement those developed in the other Professional Experience subjects. This subject will expand Teacher Education students' understandings of the contemporary issues confronting the wider education community. As such, a diverse range of educational settings including  secondary school contexts are utilised to provide a deeper perspective for future secondary teachers beyond curriculum matters, and to facilitate engagement with holistic schooling practices. Teacher Education students choose from the available educational contexts  to suit their needs, interests, expertise and communities. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: EDUC 7002 - Professional Experience 3 TEAC 7139 - Secondary Professional Practice 3  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7111  Professional Project  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102163  Professional project enables students to engage in an intensive study of an aspect of work related learning in order to develop, implement or improve some aspect of current professional or personal practice. It provides opportunities for students to use research skills and related theory directly as they implement a practice-based research-informed project within their own areas of specialisation. Students will be required to consult, present 'work in progress' and prepare a final report for a suitable audience.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7115  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7055 - Independent Studies – Practice in Context  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7112  Prosocial Learning Environments  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101105  Educators have a key responsibility in guiding children’s development of self-discipline, moral autonomy, sense of social belonging, and wellbeing, whilst acknowledging the plurality of family and community values and expectations surrounding children’s socio-emotional development and conduct. Students will build an in-depth knowledge of a range of theories and practical approaches to proactively guide children’s learning of positive behaviours and minimise and manage instances of challenging behaviours. The subject focuses on the design of safe, structured, and positive learning environments that promote a positive socio-emotional climate utilising whole early childhood and primary school policies and frameworks. The subject assists students to critically evaluate the implementation of various guidance approaches and reflect on their personal and professional dispositions regarding behaviour and guidance in early childhood and primary school settings. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7114  Research and Professional Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102100  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject aims to develop students' capacity to reflect on and develop their teaching practice and professional identity as practitioner researchers. Vital to this process is the capacity to use research to interpret current educational contexts and the implications for their role as teachers. Students will explore research processes including data collection, analysis techniques and the processes that experienced researchers take in order to ensure their research is valid, reliable, ethical, useful and socially responsible. Contemporary theories as well as social, cultural, economic and political structures important to the role and work of teachers will also be critically reviewed. In this subject students will challenge established, historical conceptualisations of 'teacher' to develop their own understanding of this role in contemporary, early childhood and primary education contexts.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7115  Researching Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101656  This subject enables students to engage in research practice in their area of professional interest or specialisation. Students will develop deep insight into the application of research in practice contexts and diverse research methodologies appropriate to practitioner research. They will develop skills in analysing, critiquing, and synthesising the literature in a relevant research area. Evaluation of research literature will be the basis for planning a self-directed professional project that employs identifiable research methods and tools to address a question of personal and/ or professional relevance.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7116  Researching STEM Education for Future Leadership  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102512  This subject seeks to redefine and inform practice about what it means to be a contemporary STEM teacher by engaging with literature on a specific research topic in STEM education and designing and implementing a research project in a team on that area of STEM education. The focus is also on the role of teacher/practitioner-research as central to professional learning in contemporary education. The central role of practitioner research in the practice of future STEM educational leaders is emphasised. Students will also be required to complete evidence-gathering in an e-portfolio to demonstrate they meet the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7121  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7119  Researching and Developing Engaging Pedagogies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102075  This subject builds on the interplay between research and practice. It extends students' understanding of the processes and uses of participatory action research, also known in this context as teacher-based inquiry. It reviews theories on engaging practices in diverse professional contexts, with a focus on working with students from low socio-economic backgrounds, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island learners and students who have English as an additional language or dialect (EAL/D). It also reviews pedagogic approaches linked to 21st century education. It challenges students to inquire into and reflect upon their professional practice and develop engaging classroom pedagogies and assessment practices in the area of their primary teaching specialisation (English, Mathematics or Science and Technology). The subject expands students' research skills through the critical review and application of various approaches to document, measure and evaluate student engagement. In line with NESA primary teaching specialisation requirements, students must apply these research skills and understandings to their school, classroom context and selected curriculum area specialisation. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7154 - Professional Experience 1 and TEAC 7141 - Teaching and Learning in Classrooms  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7120  STEM Pedagogies in Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102511  The purpose of this subject is for students to gain exposure to authentic contexts for integrating science, technology, engineering and mathematics and to develop knowledge and skills with designing and implementing STEM learning experiences.  Students will have the opportunity to complete an authentic interdisciplinary STEM task, and draw upon this experience to design and implement interdisciplinary STEM learning activities aligned to syllabus outcomes.  This subject will allow students to simulate and evaluate the teaching practices associated with high-quality interdisciplinary STEM lessons, and collaborate with peers who have expertise in different STEM disciplines.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7121 STEM Foundations (This prerequisite applies to students enrolled in program 1848 only)  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 7154 This corequisite applies to students enrolled in program 1848 only  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7121  STEM foundations  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102508  This subject will enable students to engage with knowledge of research-based integrated approaches to the teaching of science, technology, engineering and mathematics in schools. Students will learn about interdisciplinary methods for STEM learning, including project based learning and design thinking. The subject will allow students to undertake a critical examination of innovative, interdisciplinary approaches to curriculum development and relevant pedagogical strategies to maximise student learning and engagement with STEM disciplines. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7122  Science for Contemporary Learners  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102485  The purpose of this subject is for students to investigate how primary-age children think scientifically and develop knowledge of the natural world, and explore constructivist strategies for teaching primary science aligned to current reform efforts.  An emphasis will be placed on understanding the essential features of inquiry-based pedagogies, scientific practices, and the role of creativity, coding, and technology in teaching and learning science. Students will apply their understandings of learning and constructivist pedagogies to the design of a series of primary science lessons.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7140  TESOL Methodology and Curricula  (20 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101697  Focusing on the process of teaching English as a second or other language, the subject provides students with knowledge about approaches to teaching necessary to plan, design and evaluate curricula most appropriate to the needs of different learners. Students will develop skills in action research to facilitate critical evaluation of their teaching practices as independent professionals.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Incompatible Subjects: LGYA 0753 - TESOL Methodology LGYA 0746 - TESOL Curriculum Development  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7141  Teaching and Learning in Classrooms  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102076  From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject is designed to prepare students for their role as active, thoughtful leaders of learning environments for primary students. Students will come to an understanding of their trajectory as professional learners as they develop a deeper understanding of who they are as teachers.  The portfolio that they begin in this subject will be a vehicle for them to reflect deeply on their emerging skills and understandings and will be part of their development of a critical perspective of their practice as a teacher. Building on previous understanding about how children learn the students will plan lesson sequences using a range of teaching strategies. The subject will familiarise students with the processes needed to implement the mandated national and state curriculums in their unique classrooms with the diversity of students with whom they are working. A study of techniques to create safe and well managed learning environments where school students feel a sense of ownership of their learning will aid successful completion of the associated practicum subject.  The practice of continuous assessment, planning, implementation and reflection that is the curriculum cycle will provide an organising principle around which the understandings gained in the curriculum units can be built.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Co-requisite(s): TEAC 7154 Professional Experience 1  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7069 - Learning for Teaching  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7142  Teaching and Learning with Adults  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102155  This subject explores the pedagogical issues which shape the ways in which teaching and learning for adults might be organised in a variety of contexts. It is suitable for leaders, teachers, tutors, trainers and other staff working in schools, organisations, workplaces and communities. The subject will draw upon a range of theoretical perspectives including approaches to learning, knowledge and assessment, the relationship between organisational context, teaching and learning, and the role of the adult educator as a ‘practical theorist’.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7144  Technology Assisting Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102154  Assistive technologies have the potential to meet a range of simple to complex needs for individuals with additional needs, and boost an individual’s participation, communication, learning outcomes and quality of life. As such, professionals must develop both knowledge and skill in identifying and embedding appropriate technology into the assessment, goal-setting, teaching and evaluation cycle. Emphasis will be placed on demonstrating deep knowledge of the literature and demonstrating skills in assessment and instructional practices employing technology to support learning, communication, curricular, and instructional access either in a learning or natural setting. Students will be expected to critically examine the educational function and efficacy of communication technology, assistive technology, digital and multimedia text, or educational software.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7077 - Multiliteracies and additional needs  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7147  Play, Health and Wellbeing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102104  Play provides a foundation for children’s holistic health, wellbeing, learning and relationships. This subject engages students in a critical inquiry of children’s play and its pedagogical potential to facilitate engagement in learning and complex interactions.  Developmental, cultural, and critical theories of play will be interrogated to enhance understanding of the value and relevance of play in both early childhood and school settings. Play-based pedagogies aligned with The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia, the Australian Curriculum and NSW Personal Development, Health and Physical Education curriculum, and national and state health promotion initiatives are used to assess and plan for children’s emerging play, relationships, movement, health and wellbeing. Students will examine children’s rights, agency and abilities within multiple play contexts, and the influence of community and families’ diverse values and cultural practices, on play opportunities that promote active and healthy ways of being. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7085 Play development and learning  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7148  Transformative Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 101658  This subject provides opportunities to examine and apply theories drawn from critical pedagogy, transformative learning and ecological thinking. It challenges students to critically examine the relationships through which personal and social knowledge is constructed and their efficacy in the construction of learning for the future. Inherent in such thinking are questions about the processes of change in education systems that lead through equity, inclusiveness, wellbeing, social justice and ecological sustainability.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7149  Understanding and Teaching Children  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102077  From 2024, this subject is replaced by TEAC 7161 - Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching. From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject is designed to facilitate prospective teachers to develop the dispositions and critical skills to create learning communities that are academically challenging, developmentally responsive, socially equitable and promote social and emotional wellbeing. The subject highlights the interacting contributions of biology and environment to the development of children and explores how teachers' knowledge of this process informs their instructional strategies.  Specifically, this subject examines a body of classic, as well as current theories, research and practice relating to the cognitive, physiological, and social/affective needs of children and focuses on the relevance of these for classroom practice.  Particular emphasis is given to developing responsive teaching practices which promote social and emotional wellbeing of children and are underpinned by high-quality relationships which extend to include the valuing of families and the wider community.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7040 - Educational Psychology for Primary Teaching  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7150  Universal Design for Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102150  Developing the ability to meet the needs of a diverse group of learners within a flexible learning situation is critical to promote inclusion. This subject reviews multiple approaches and strategies employed (e.g. accommodation, adjustment, differentiation) and advocates for Universal Design for Learning to achieve this goal. Strategies are critiqued based on their capacity to enhance learning outcomes for individuals with additional needs and to advance inclusion. These analyses are then used to develop strategies and methods which can facilitate the learning and inclusion of individuals with a range of abilities, skills and needs. Students evaluate strategies, plan and reflect on a learning experience based on Universal Design for Learning.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must successfully complete TEAC 3013 before enrolling in this subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7151  Applied Mathematics and Science in Secondary STEM Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102764  This subject develops in-service teachers' knowledge and skills in the application of mathematics and science in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) disciplines. The subject content and assessments are designed to (1) build teachers' foundational skills in science/mathematics, and (2) build teachers' professional skills in the implementation of science/mathematics in their classrooms. A particular focus of the subject is how science/mathematics can be used to authentically integrate curriculum content from across the different STEM disciplines through inquiry- and problem-based learning, with the ultimate aim of enhancing student engagement and achievement in the STEM disciplines.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7152  Applied Robotics and Programming in Secondary STEM Education  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102763  This subject develops in-service teachers' knowledge and skills in the application of robotics and coding in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) disciplines. The subject content and assessments are designed to firstly build teachers' foundational skills in robotics/coding, and secondly, build teachers' professional skills in the implementation of robotics/coding in their classrooms. A particular focus of the subject is how robotics/coding can be used to authentically integrate curriculum content from and across the different STEM disciplines through inquiry- and problem-based learning, with the ultimate aim of enhancing student engagement and achievement in the STEM disciplines.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7153  Creating Inclusive Classrooms: Perspectives on Theory, Policy, and Practice  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102746  This subject examines the theoretical, legislative, ethical, international and local policy perspectives that inform inclusive practices for diverse learning needs in school settings. It critically analyses disability, special needs, inclusive principles, and evidence-based practice.  Students will develop skills in using best practice to assess, plan, monitor, and evaluate learning for students with diverse abilities. The importance of establishing collaborative partnerships with families, educational professionals, and community support services will be examined. This subject focuses on the promotion of educational and social inclusion to enhance learning outcomes, health, and wellbeing for all young people in school contexts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7052 -  Inclusive Practices TEAC 7053 - Inclusive Teaching for Effective Learning TEAC 7049 - Inclusive Education –Theory Policy and Practice  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7154  Professional Experience 1 and Pedagogy  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102792  This subject is the first Professional Experience subject of the Master of Teaching (Primary) and Master of Teaching (Secondary) programs. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. This subject incorporates a 30-day placement in a NSW school. It is designed to introduce all students to the philosophical, ethical, practical and pedagogical perspectives of becoming a teacher in diverse, contemporary educational settings. The aim of this subject is to enable you to proactively engage in real-life educational settings to learn and enhance your professional development as a future teacher. This subject gives you the opportunity to explore the relationship between practical and theoretical knowledge of teaching. This subject will provide you with an opportunity to explore a range of learning activities that occur inside and outside the classrooms, and the roles of the teaching and non-teaching staff within the school. Through ongoing observation, supervised teaching and contribution in the wider school community, the subject ensures you work towards the achievement of the national standards for a graduate teacher.

Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): Students enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM must has successfully completedTEAC 7161 Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching and TEAC 7032 Diversity Social Justice and Schooling and(TEAC 7160 Literacy  Numeracy for Secondary Teaching or TEAC 7027 Designing Teaching and Learning)Students enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) must has successfully completedTEAC 7161 Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching and TEAC 7032 Diversity Social Justice and Schooling  Co-requisite(s): Students enrolled in 1714 - Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM must have successfully completed or be enrolled in TEAC 7082 Pedagogy for Positive learning EnvironmentsStudents enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) must have successfully completed or be enrolled in TEAC 7082 Pedagogy for Positive learning Environments or TEAC 7141 Teaching and Learning in Classrooms  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7097 - Primary Professional Practice 1 TEAC 7135 - Secondary Professional Practice I TEAC 7109 - Professional Practice 1 TEAC 7102 - Professional Experience 1 TEAC 7136 - Secondary Professional Practice 1 STEM  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7155  Professional Experience 2  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102793  The aim of this subject is to enable education students to proactively engage in real-life educational settings to learn and enhance their professional development as a future teacher. This second professional experience subject provides 30 of the 60 required professional experience days. This provides you with an opportunity to explore ranges of learning activities that occurs inside and outside the classrooms and the roles of the teaching and non-teaching staff within the school. You will also have opportunity to reflect on the teaching and learning cycle and refine your competencies as a beginning teacher under the supervision of qualified educators. This subject includes the TPA (Teaching Performance Assessment) which is designed to assess Teacher Education Students teaching as measured by the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the Graduate level. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7154  Co-requisite(s): -  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7110 Professional Practice II TEAC 7098 Primary Professional Practice 2 TEAC 7105 Professional Experience II TEAC 7137 Secondary Professional Practice 2 TEAC 7138 Secondary Professional Practice 2 - STEM  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7156  Aboriginal Education: Past, Present and Future  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102810  This subject builds the capacity of students to work in culturally competent and sensitive ways in relation to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education in primary schools and early childhood settings. It allows for the development of understandings of the similarities and/or diversities of local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander groups including culture, histories, languages and identity. It examines the social and cultural contexts that influence engagement by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children, families and communities. It explores ways of improving engagement through effective early childhood and school culture, curriculum and community approaches. By investigating current approaches for teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children and integrating Aboriginal knowledges, perspectives and culturally sensitive pedagogies into education, the students develop their own practices in providing an inclusive learning environment for all children. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7016 - Classrooms without Borders  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7157  Action Research in Teaching  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102811  This subject provides an opportunity for students to engage with literature on a particular aspect of a research topic and design a research project in a team. Students will: locate and select relevant research literature to investigate a particular research question; analyse key ideas, assumptions and domains of knowledge in the literature around that question; identify appropriate research methods and designs for answering it; critically apply appropriate forms of data collection and data analysis to that research design, and develop research findings into an informed discussion linking to broader academic conversations around the field being researched. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7117 - Researching Teaching  Learning 2  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7158  Researching Teaching and Learning  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 102852  This subject builds on the premise that, in contemporary education environments, teachers continue to develop their professional knowledge and practice through their engagement in reflective inquiry. The capacity to read and make sense of research is an important professional attribute for teachers interested in sustainable practices, engaged inquiry learning by adolescents, and diversity, social justice and equity. The subject provides pre-service teachers with a starting point and practical insights into the day-to-day decision making of educators. The content will follow the order and logic that experienced researchers take in order to ensure quality in their research, and also to ensure that it is valid, reliable, ethical, useful and socially responsible. Given the professional skills required by teachers, the subject pays particular attention to the elements involved in action research.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7118 - Researching Teaching and Learning 1  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7160  Literacy and Numeracy for Secondary Teaching  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject addresses how to effectively teach literacy and numeracy across a range of secondary subjects. It focuses on how to teach oral language, phonics, reading and comprehension strategies within different disciplines. Students will learn about how writing can be used to develop adolescents’ learning and depth of understanding using explicit, guided and independent pedagogies for writing. The subject covers the six strands of mathematics including number, algebra, geometry, measurement, statistics and probability. Students will apply proficiencies in understanding, fluency, problem-solving and reasoning. The use of scaffolds and application of numeracy in a range of curriculum areas will be addressed. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: -  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7161  Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject highlights the interacting contributions of biology and environment to the development of children and adolescents and explores how teachers' knowledge of this process must inform their pedagogy. Specifically, this subject examines classic and current theories and research evidence-base relating to the biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development of children and adolescents and the implications of these for learning and classroom practice. It includes theoretical perspectives on the brain and learning including memory formation, retention and models of motivation, attention, and knowledge acquisition. This subject dispels common educational neuromyths and focuses on evidence-informed pedagogical practices that support learning, engagement, motivation, and wellbeing in culturally responsive classrooms. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7149 and TEAC 7004  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7162  Children’s Learning and Development  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Early and middle childhood represent periods of rapid growth in children’s physical, cognitive, language, social, emotional, and moral development. This subject provides students with a comprehensive understanding of child development as well as a deep knowledge of learning theories and contemporary research evidence to evaluate implications for teaching children birth-12 years. In particular, students will develop an understanding of brain development and cognitive processes for children birth-12 years. Students will examine the critical role that family, culture, and community play in children’s development and evaluate the impact of their personal perspectives on their teaching practices. This subject enables students to understand and critique theory and research evidence about child development and learning theories to plan and implement evidence-based teaching pedagogy that is culturally and developmentally appropriate. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7163  Investigations: Sustainability, Science and Technology  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject explores the place of science, technology and sustainability in the Early Years Learning Framework, the Australian Curriculum and relevant syllabuses. It will focus on scientific and technological pedagogical content knowledge appropriate for teaching science and technology. The subject will explore the importance of Aboriginal ways of knowing in science using culturally sensitive pedagogies. Within the subject there is significant emphasis on developing scientific inquiry skills and computational and systems thinking in applying technology. The subject supports confident, curious, creative and imaginative life-long learners to inquire, discover and think critically to develop sustainable ideas and solutions using digital and design technologies. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7099  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7164  Literacy Connections 2: Communicating, Reading and Writing  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject is designed to extend students’ understanding of teaching reading, writing, speaking and listening in the upper primary years of school. Students will apply their knowledge of the relevant curriculum documents to assess and plan for children in Stages 2 and 3. Students will explore how a range of texts are applied to teach reading comprehension at the literal, inferential and evaluative levels and provide a context for children’s writing for a range of purposes. Opportunities to integrate literacy across the curriculum, drawing on multimodal approaches will be explored. A critical understanding of a range of pedagogical and assessment practices will inform teaching and learning for children with diverse languages, cultures and abilities. Students will apply this knowledge to develop and evaluate literacy lessons. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Pre-requisite(s): TEAC 7071  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7090  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7165  Working Mathematically 2: Strengthening Connections  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  This subject builds on the knowledge and practices developed in Working Mathematically 1: Exploring Connections to prepare students to work with upper primary school learners. Students will expand their understanding of primary mathematics in the NSW Mathematics K-10 syllabus for Stages 2 and 3. The focus of this subject is on mathematics pedagogy, curriculum, inquiry, learner engagement, assessment, differentiation for diversity and the integration of technology. Assessment for learning and planning will be underpinned by the Australian Curriculum: Mathematics and the relevant NSW Mathematics syllabus and curriculum documents.  Students will explore how mathematical learning, fluency and problem-solving is conceptually developed. This subject will promote confident teachers who engage learners in meaningful mathematical experiences which promote autonomy and agency. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7094  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7166  Inclusive Pedagogies  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Inclusion is a right for all children. This subject explores how socio-cultural factors influence children’s experiences of difference, diversity and disability. Students will reflect on their role as a teacher in advocating for equity and access to nurturing early childhood and primary inclusive learning environments.  By drawing on research and relevant curriculum documents, students will learn to optimise learning through a tiered, strength-based approach that reduces barriers to learning and strengthens the diverse capabilities of all learners.  The subject promotes the importance of collaborative partnerships with families and all those working with the child. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Equivalent Subjects: TEAC 7052 TEAC 7053 TEAC 7049 TEAC 7153  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 7167  Primary English and Literacy 3  (10 Credit Points)  Subject Details  The focus on this subject is the exploration and critical evaluation of the teaching of English and Literacy across K-6 classrooms. This subject recognises that language, discourses, and text shape students’ interactions with our complex world and how we can teach students in K-6 to understand how meaning is shaped, conveyed, interpreted, and reflected. Contemporary pedagogical practices of teaching English with reference to National Literacy Progressions will be explored. There is strong emphasis on critical and creative understanding of approaches to develop literacy in K-6 with attention to understanding, interpreting, and creating texts with a wide range of diverse learners. A wide range of children’s literature will be used with particular focus given to the selection and use of rich Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander literature in teaching English. The subject provides opportunities for pre-service teachers to understand, critique and apply current literacy approaches that deliver successful outcomes for students. This subject is in the transition stage of program.Level: Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 9001  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Teacher Education: Early Childhood  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800011  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 9002  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Teacher Education: Primary  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800013  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject TEAC 9003  Higher Degree Research Thesis - Teacher Education: Secondary  (80 Credit Points)  Subject Details  Legacy Code: 800015  Level: PhD and Research Masters Level 9 subject  Restrictions: Please see the Subject Details page for any restrictions for this subject