Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7116 Business Project A Credit Points 10 Coordinator Laurel Jackson Opens in new window Description Business Project A is the first of two integrative capstone subjects. The capstone equips professionals to address contemporary challenges through research and applying knowledge developed in earlier subjects of study. This student-centred subject provides close supervision of research and analytical practices to enhance skill development and capacity to engage with problems confronting organisations, taking account of contexts and multiple stakeholders. Students will have scope to focus on issues that are of particular concern to organisations or interest for their careers. As an integrating subject, it demands participants bring together their knowledge and curiosity to develop recommendations in a format that can showcase their achievements. In Business Project A students develop a project proposal that is completed in Business Project B. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects BUSM 7012
BUSM 7055 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Students in program 2761 Master of Business Administration must have completed 80 credit point and must obtain permission from the Director of Academic Program before undertaking this subject. Students in program 2624 Master of Business (Operations Management) must have completed 40 credit points before undertaking this subject. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the business environment and organisational structures, business communications skills, business strategy, as well as substantial knowledge in the major discipline area. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Develop a project proposal outlining a business plan for an in-depth investigation of a contemporary organisational challenge.
Present complex ideas in a discipline-relevant or business context using professional communication skills.
Analyse and interpret secondary data gathered from a range of sources, to assist in defining and refining the contemporary issue. 
Review theories, concepts and tools relevant to solving the challenge faced by the organisation or industry. Subject Content Students will work in conjunction with the Subject Coordinator and an academic supervisor who is an academic expert in their area of specialisation. All projects must be approved by the Subject Coordinator prior to commencing. Each project will involve literature survey, application of theory and techniques, methodological investigation and recommendations.  Wherever possible projects should be industry based and directly relevant to the student’s area of interest. Students will meet with their Supervisor regularly throughout the study period and with the Subject Coordinator, in a class environment, as defined by the subject guidelines. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Business Administration (2761)