Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2016 Pavement Materials and Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300984 Coordinator Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students the basic knowledge and concepts on pavement materials and design. It will cover the common materials used in pavement construction such as aggregates, cement, asphalt, and concrete. It will also cover the pavement design system, pavement construction, design of flexible pavements, design of rigid pavements, and pavement maintenance. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Transport Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1008 or PROC 1008 Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1007 - Engineering Geology and Concrete Materials ENGR 2017 - Pavement Materials and Design Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the properties and manufacture of pavement materials;
Design asphalt mix and concrete mix;
Evaluate and select the pavement materials for specific pavement construction;
Explain the pavement design system;
Apply the basic principles to the structural design and construction of flexible and rigid pavements;
Conduct pavement evaluation and describe the pavement maintenance practices. Subject Content 1. Pavement materials and their selection
2. Granular materials: role and function, behaviour, production, properties, and tests for quality
3. Asphalt: mix types, materials selection, mix design, manufacture, and paving
4. Cement: composition, hydration, and properties
5. Concrete: materials selection, mix design, and steel reinforcement materials
6. Pavement design system
7. Design of flexible pavements
8. Design of rigid pavements
9. Pavement construction
10. Maintenance of pavement Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Self-Assessment 1 Hour 5 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)