Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7047 Transnational Crime Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102198 Coordinator Sharon Kwok Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject is replaced by HUMN 6001 Transnational Crime and Human Security Threat. In traditional criminology crimes have been understood as acts that breach the criminal code of a given nation state. By contrast, transnational crimes are defined as violations of law that embrace more than one nation in their planning, operation or impact. These crimes often have a much broader (though often veiled) relation to serious individual and collective social harm and can be especially difficult to prevent or investigate and prosecute. Students will be expected to understand the global and regional developments that foster transnational crime, its range and security impacts, and international agreements and conventions as well the new forms of policing developed to counter it. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate degree in criminology, criminal justice or a related social science area, or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe evidence about the full range of transnational forms of crime;
Critically describe, distinguish between and assess rival theoretical explanations of transnational crime;
Explain criminal justice policy and policing implications of these new forms of crime. Subject Content 1. Introduction to organised crime and transnational crime
2. Economics of transnational crime
3. Borderless criminal organisation
4. Transnational Crime - Drug Trafficking
5. Transnational Crime - Human trafficking and smuggling
6. Cyber crime and virtual border
7. Wildlife trafficking
8. Policing the globe Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1,000 Words 20 N Individual N  Literature Review 1,500 Words 30 N Individual N  Report 2,500 Words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)