Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3017 Neurological Physiotherapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400986 Coordinator Reem Rendell Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the knowledge and skills developed in the first 2 years of physiotherapy study. It focuses on client assessment and evidence-based management in neurological physiotherapy contexts. This will require strong communication skills, ethical and professional behaviour and an appreciation of interprofessional care. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include introductory skills in neurological physiotherapy assessment, interpretation and prioritisation of findings, and formulation of basic interventions. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2001 AND
NATS 3037 AND
NATS 2008 AND
HLTH 2021 AND
PUBH 2005 AND
HLTH 2024 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3009 AND
REHA 3015 AND
REHA 3003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled inenrolled in 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy or 4733 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the pathophysiology of a variety of neurological conditions.
Formulate an appropriate person-centered and evidence-based assessment on an individual with a common neurological condition. 
Perform assessments on individuals with common neurological conditions in an effective, ethical and professional manner in accordance with the Australian Physiotherapy Standards.
Select and incorporate appropriate standardised and non-standardised outcome measures when conducting an assessment for an individual with a common neurological condition. 
Interpret assessment findings and generate a prioritised problem list.
Safely execute manual handling tasks to ensure safety of the therapeutic environment. 
Formulate an initial evidence-based treatment plan for adults with a common neurological condition. Subject Content Subjective assessment, investigations, notes.
Objective assessment including observation, basic cognition, range of movement, strength, length, sensation, reflexes, spasticity, coordination, proprioception, function, balance and mobility.
Task analysis of abnormal movement across a range of everyday upper and lower limb tasks and standardised and non-standardised assessments.
Interpretation of findings, prioritisation of client problems and development of a problem list.
Design and implementation of basic management techniques including education, and task-related training.
Monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness of interventions.
Interprofessional communication, ethics, and professionalism.
Safe manual handling and environmental set up. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 45 minutes 30 N Individual N  Practical Exam 20 minutes 30 Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y  Professional Task N/A S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Reem Rendell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)