Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1003 Introduction to Podiatry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400905 Coordinator Sean Lanting Opens in new window Description The broad aim of this subject is to introduce the work of podiatrists in health care and explain the important role of podiatric services in the community. Students will gain knowledge of professional and legislative requirements and develop skills in clinical and reflective practice. The focus will primarily be on areas designed to prepare students for incorporating the clinical standards for infection control and general clinical assessment skills in preparation for competent and culturally safe practice in clinical subjects. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Podiatry specific - students will be participating in podiatry related knowledge and skills that apply to podiatric practice subjects and designed to be an integrated part of the suite of subjects where one subject builds upon the competencies that complement subjects in Year 2, 3 and 4. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1.Describe the scope of practice of podiatry and the role of the profession within the health care setting.
2.Describe one’s own cultural worldview, values and perceptions of health and the implications of these for health care practice.
3.Describe the presentation and treatment of common skin and nail disorders.
4.Explain and perform basic vascular, neurological and biomechanical assessments of the lower extremity and interpret the results.
5.Discuss and apply the framework of infection control standards in the health care environment.
6.Describe the legal and professional standards associated with documentation and management of patient data in clinical settings.
7.Demonstrate appropriate, and safe professional behaviour consistent with that required in a clinical setting. Subject Content 1. Infection control, Communication
2. Fundamental lower-limb anatomy and biomechanics
3. Peripheral vascular system and assessment
4. Peripheral neurological system and assessment
5. Skin and nail structure and function
6. Clinical documentation
7. History taking, skin and nail assessment
8. Onychopathies
9. Fungal and viral infections
10. Bacterial infections, Footwear
11. Skin neoplasms, Blistering
12. Skin conditions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Reflection 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours 40 N Individual N  Participation By conclusion of teaching period S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task By end of teaching period S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Sean Lanting Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)