Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2028 World Music Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102762 Coordinator Nicholas Ng Opens in new window Description This subject examines music from diverse cultures, such as African, Latin American, Middle Eastern, Asian, and the Australia-Oceania region, focusing on the performance, production, and transmission of contemporary fusion music. It explores the cultural-political ways in which the West represents world music as a commodity and considers how the music is inflected with notions of identity, modernity, globalisation, displacement and migration. It charts the ways in which, as a social practice, world music engages politics to promote change, giving voice to marginalised groups. Students will have the opportunity to perform selected rhythms from different cultures. Additionally, they will learn elements of music theory that pertain to the cultures studied in the subject. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 3002 - Contemporary Arts 3 Politics and Communities PERF 2014 - Modes and Codes of Music Production PERF 2025 - The Politics of Australian Music Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of music notation. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate the diversity of genre and impact of the historical, socio-cultural, and global contexts of world music.
Communicate the ways in which world music operates as a political discourse, focusing on its impact on marginal groups.
Analyse the musical, lyrical, and performative dimensions of world music.
Execute performances of rhythmic patterns and melodies of world music.
Perform a range of world music compositions.
Demonstrate fluency in the basic notation and theory associated with world music.
Develop the capability to work with students across the Music program on collaborative, technical and performance skills. Subject Content Music from diverse cultures, such as African, Latin American, Middle Eastern, Asian and Australian-Oceanic.
The performance, production, and transmission of contemporary fusion music.
Representations of world music as a commodity.
Practical performances of rhythms from different cultures.
Introduction to music theory as it relates the cultures studied.
World music as a vehicle for the expression of identity, modernity, globalisation, displacement and migration.
The political and social dimensions of world music and relationship to marginalised societies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 1,000 words 15 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 60 to 80 minutes 25 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 8 to 10 minutes 30 N Group/Individual N  Participation  S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Nettl, Bruno et al (2015). Excursions in world music, 6th edition. Florence: Taylor and Francis. available online: https://uws.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/61UWSTSYD_INST/pcuckd/alma9927133480601571 Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Nicholas Ng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Studies, Major (0343) Musicology, Major (0025) Musicology, Minor (0025) Performing Arts (PERF)