Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 7006 Plant-Climate Interactions in Controlled Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301357 Coordinator Jay Bose Opens in new window Description This subject aims to provide knowledge of relationships between plant growth, controlled environment and crop physiological aspects relevant to protected crop production. The subject will provide students with relevant knowledge to explain and develop concepts that are key to understanding various areas of environmental plant physiology. The subject will also stimulate students to conceptualise interactions between the physical environment and plant functioning. The subject will compare the important parameters and concepts (e.g. plant growth, plant and fruit development, light interception, light use efficiency, biomass partitioning, and water use efficiency) in horticultural crop growth in the controlled systems. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Students entering this subject should have knowledge of one of the following subject areas: horticultural production systems; environmental sustainability analytics; computing and technological applications; marketing principles and business management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain physical and chemical factors that control plant growth.
Measure, analyse and explain advantages and disadvantages of the light environments.
Dissect the fundamental processes of photosynthesis and understand how leaf photosynthesis can
Explain the principles of leaf gas exchange and important parameters and concepts underlying
Explain the potential and importance of physical-physiological measurements for plant phenotyping
Synthesise experimental results to reach valid conclusions.
Appraise the interactions between the physical environment and plant function with a focus on crop
Communicate the findings of scientific investigations and literature reviews relating to contemporary issues in plant-climate interactions. Subject Content 1.Plant microclimates such as air and tissue temperature, light, and air humidity.
2.Common methods for measuring soil and plant nutrition controlling crop growth and development
3.Lighting sources and the effects of the light environment (natural versus artificial light, including intensity, spectrum and duration) on crop production
4.Concepts and measurements of crop primary production for horticultural crops grown in controlled systems and the open field
5.Crop gas exchange, growth analysis and biomass allocation to estimate photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and dark respiration
6.Latest advances in plant phenotyping
7.Environmental impacts on crop growth and production under protected cropping Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 x online quizzes (60 min. each, multiple choice and short answer questions) 30 N Individual N  Report One practical report (1,000 words) 15 N Group N  Presentation one 15-min. presentation 15 N Group N  Report 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Jay Bose Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Protected Cropping (3773) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Protected Cropping (3772) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Master of Science (3749)