Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3014 Digital Communication Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102518 Coordinator Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window Description This subject covers the theory and practice of social/digital media (SDM) for marketing and communication in a variety of business, advertising and public relations agency contexts. It provides an introduction to the areas of strategy, creative writing and media planning for SDM. It examines trends and issues surrounding the usage of SDM and application and development of practical and tactical tools. Case studies and examples are used to demonstrate best practices. Students develop a major project where they demonstrate appropriate and professional usage of SDM strategies and tactics in a marketing communication context. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MKTG 1001 OR
MKTG 1009 AND
COMM 2011 Equivalent Subjects COMM 3016 - Digital and Social Media Communications Incompatible Subjects LGYA 1699 - Digital and Social Media Communication COMM 3004 - Advertising Digital Media Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points at Level 1. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate various digital tools, including social media.
Develop an informed and theoretically sound digital communication plan/strategy.
Apply the concepts and tools required to build and maintain an effective digital communication strategy.
Demonstrate the ability to use and analyse digital and social media in the business context.
Prepare basic and more complex writing tasks typically required of communication professionals for digital and social media channels.
Analyse how digital and social media is used and recommend improvements to real-world issues and problems.
Adequately assess the risk involved in developing a digital strategy to address a marketing communication challenge. Subject Content Covers the theory and practice of using social/digital media (SDM) for marketing and communication in a variety of business and public agency contexts. Provides an introduction to the areas of strategy, creative writing and media planning for SDM. Examines the trends and issues surrounding the usage of SDM and application and development of practical and tactical tools. Uses case studies and examples to demonstrate best practices. Students develop a major project where they demonstrate appropriate and professional usage of SDM strategies and tactics in a marketing communication context. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Practical 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 3,000 words 40 N Group N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advertising Studies, Minor (0043) Advertising, Major (0159) Advertising, Minor (0159) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) Public Relations, Major (0160) Public Relations, Minor (0160) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)