Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2005 Botany Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300836 Coordinator Kristine Crous Opens in new window Description From microscopic algae  to giant flowering angiosperms, this subject develops  students  knowledge and understanding of plants on earth. The subject covers the topics of plant anatomy and morphology, classification and systematics, and evolution. Students will examine the major groups of plants: green algae, bryophytes, lycophytes, monilophytes, gymnosperms and angiosperms. Laboratory and field work  involves the study of common Australian plants and economically significant plants. School Science Discipline Botany Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 1001 Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5440 - Botany LGYA 5941 - Botany Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of biology, chemistry and ecology. Learning Outcomes Define botany as an area of study and place it in its scientific and social context.
Explain how evolutionary processes have led to the diversity of plants.
Describe the characteristics of the major groups of plants, and how tools such as microscopy and molecular biology can be used to study them.
Explain how botany is used to solve real-world problems such as measuring biodiversity.
Conduct botanical investigations safely and ethically in the field and laboratory, using appropriate methodologies correctly to obtain valid data.
Use spreadsheets and statistical tools in analytical programs to enter, analyse and graph data and to draw appropriate conclusions.
Communicate findings correctly in written form using an appropriate style, accessing the botanical literature to place the findings in context. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online Quizzes 20 min per week (10 - 12 weeks) 20 N Individual   Report on Family Characteristiscs and plant biodiversity via Virtual Herbarium 1500 words 30 N Individual   Tasks from tutorials and practicals 1 hour per tutorial/prac 20 N Individual   Examination 2 hours 30 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS)