Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 2001 Analysis of Spatial Data Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101646 Coordinator Awais Piracha Opens in new window Description The making and the use of maps. This subject involves the critical examination of the way geographical data is produced, analysed, mapped and used to inform both private and public decisions. Natural environment, health, accessibility and residential amenity are examples of phenomena that have an important geographical dimension. Policy responses to these phenomena need to be specific with regard to locations and places. Geographic information systems software and census will be used to produce maps based on the analysis and interpretation of data relating to the student's field of interest. School Social Sciences Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7235 - Analysis of Spatial Data Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and critically analyse geographical information
Apply GIS to the analysis and modelling of social, economic or environmental data
Identify and describe the spatial dimension of issues in the social or environmental sciences Subject Content Basic elements and principles of mapping/cartography
Basics of Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Understanding social and environmental spatial databases
Spatial analysis of social data
Modelling urban growth and change within cities
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) applications
Web based mapping for communities
Critical appraisal of spatial information
Spatial dimensions of social indicies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 500 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Awais Piracha Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Awais Piracha Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Architectural Design (3753) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Geography and Urban Studies, Major (0010) Geography and Urban Studies, Minor (0010) Geography for Secondary Teaching (0265) Place Management and Planning, Major (0304) Secondary Geography Education, Major (0355) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Social Research, Minor (0259) Urban Studies, Major (0162)