Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7021 Knowledge Representation and Reasoning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301315 Coordinator Yan Zhang Opens in new window Description Knowledge representation and reasoning is one of the fundamental components of Artificial Intelligence. Students will learn the principles and methodologies that are used to represent and reason about human knowledge effectively in formal computational models, and eventually solve complex tasks using computer systems. This subject covers logic foundations of knowledge representation and reasoning, Answer Set Programming approaches for declarative problem solving, intelligent agent modelling, diagnostic and probabilistic reasoning. The subject plays an important part in preparing students for career paths as AI engineers, robotics engineers and intelligent software engineers. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Artificial Intelligence Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFO 7002 Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence OR
COMP 7015 Programming Proficiency AND INFS 7007 System Analysis Database Management Systems OR
MATH 7012 Programming for Data Science AND MATH 7016 The Nature of Data Restrictions Students must complete 60 credit points before enrolling into this Subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1.Critically analyse the logic foundations of knowledge representation and reasoning in Artificial Intelligence.
2.Represent and reason about intelligent systems, based on the essentials and advancement of non-monotonic reasoning mechanisms.
3.Develop Answer Set Programming as a declarative programming language and use its applications in various complex problem solving domains.
4.Adapt formal languages based on Answer Set Programming to represent complex domains including robotic planning and diagnostic agents.
5.Evaluate and analyse different knowledge reasoning systems, by applying theories and principles of knowledge representation and reasoning.
6.Undertake independent research project that includes defining, formalising and specifying, and implementing system prototypes for real-world applications. Subject Content Logical Foundations for Knowledge Representation and Reasoning
Knowledge Representation and Non-monotonic Reasoning 
Answer Set Programming: Syntax and Semantics
Declarative Problem Solving Using Answer Set Programming
Algorithms for Computing Answer Sets
Modelling Dynamic Domains
Planning and Diagnostic Agents
Probabilistic Reasoning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Practical 5 hours per practical 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1000 words (report  + programming)   +   15 minutes presentation 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Yan Zhang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Yan Zhang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Testamur Major (T002) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)