Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 6001 Ethics and Diversity in Counselling Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102909 Coordinator Ireni Farag Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to prepare students to work in a diverse society as counsellors and advocates. Students will study the emergence of research in the counselling professions and explore connections and tensions between personal, professional and research ethics. Students will have the opportunity to examine their own cultural identity development, their own relationship with power and privilege and how these may impact their counselling practice. The subject will critically examine the evolution of the multicultural movement in the counselling profession and will consider issues and concerns of several non-dominant populations, including intersectionality in working with diverse ethnicities, genders, sexualities, religions, age and ability status. School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects WELF 7008 - Ethics and Diversity in Research and Therapy HUMN 7036 - Research in the Social Sciences Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1817 - Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling. Assumed Knowledge Concurrent or previous study of any foundational subject in counselling. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate theories, evolution and contemporary issues in the counselling profession and in multicultural counselling.
Analyse diversity, ethical issues and considerations in multicultural counselling.
Collaborate with individuals from intersecting and diverse backgrounds to contribute to the solution for ethical issues in multicultural counselling.
Reflect on own values and awareness to enhance personal and professional development in multicultural counselling. Subject Content Theories and evolution of ethical principles in counselling and psychotherapy.
Diversity issues in counselling practices.
Ethical issues in multicultural counselling.
Key ethical principles and frameworks in counselling and psychotherapy.
Personal and professional awareness and development in counselling and psychotherapy. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 750 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1,250 words 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ireni Farag Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling (1817)