Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 1024 Introduction to Physiology (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700302 Coordinator Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the concept of homeostasis and critically examines examples of how the body systems are regulated and homeostatically controlled. The subject uses a body-systems approach to examine the physiology of tissues, organs and systems in order to develop an integrated view of the regulated functioning of the human body. School Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 1017 - Introduction to Human Physiology LGYA 6186 - Physiology 1 BIOS 1025 - Introduction to Physiology BIOS 1026 Introduction to Physiology (WSTC) 700098 Introduction to Physiology (WSTC) Incompatible Subjects BIOS 1022 - Introduction to Human Biology BIOS 1023 - Introduction to Human Biology (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the physiology of the discussed organ systems in detail.
Explain how the discussed organ systems are integrated and controlled by the endocrine and nervous system in order to maintain homeostasis.
Identify and list examples of negative and positive feedback loops.
Conduct simple measurements and record and interpret the results.
Interpret, present and discuss recorded data of the functioning of one organ system.
Analyse the complexity of the selected organ systems.
Communicate effectively by listening, speaking and participating in discussion of physiology Subject Content 1. Homeostasis
2. Physiology of the Nervous System
3. Cardiovascular Physiology
4. Respiratory physiology
5. Renal function and body fluid homeostasis
6. Physiology of the endocrine system
7. Muscle physiology and exercise
8. Nutrition, metabolism and gastrointestinal function
9. Physiology of the reproductive system This subject replaces BIOS 1026/700098 from 2020 Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    a)	Intra-sessional exam 1 
b)	Intra-sessional exam 2 
c) Logbook/ Workbook a) Online 30 mins
b)Online 30 mins
c) 2 hours per week, completed in class
 20 N Both (Individual & Group)   Intra-session mid-term exam 1 hour 20 N Individual   Logbook / Workbook 5 x 3hr lab sessions. Logbook to be completed during this time 25 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Diploma in Science Fast Track (7009) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)