Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 7008 Mechatronic System Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300600 Coordinator Richard Yang Opens in new window Description This subject will advance the skills of mechanics, mechanical systems and automation in the practice of engineering design as applied to mechatronic devices and systems. The ability to perform detailed design analysis of machine elements as well as  control systems as applicable to manufacturing and process machinery is the intended outcome of undertaking this subject and project-based tasks will form part of the learning process and team work experience. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 6106 - Servo Systems Design (PG) LGYA 5832 - Mechatronic System Design Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Equivalent Bachelor of Engineering degree. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design machine elements, such as shafts, bearings, brake, gears & clutches.
Design of a mechatronic system.
Design and analyse fluid power servo systems
Compare available equipment and select suitable components for the designed system.
Design an integrated mechatronic system in a team project-based environment Subject Content Shaft, bearing and gear analysis and design.
Belt drives, shaft, clutches, brakes, coupling and motor systems.
Pneumatic and hydraulic equipment and circuits.
Feedback loops and equipment selection.
Project based design of an integrated mechanical system including selection of suitable components. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 4 X Tutorial Assignments (7.5% each)  30 N Individual Y  Practical 4 X Lab Workbooks (5% each) Finish lab workbooks within 2 hour practical sessions 20 N Individual Y  Report 3,000 words (Report 25%)  and 15 minutes (Presentation 5%) 30 Y Group Y  Quiz 2 X Quizzes (10% each) 1 hour each  20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Helen Wu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical and Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T112) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T063)