Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4031 Honours Research 1 Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 400945 Coordinator Kym Hennessy Opens in new window Description This subject commences the significant research component of the student's honours degree. Students will work on their specific research project in conjunction with their supervisor, engaging in the early stages of the research process related to critical review of the literature, designing their project, considering ethical dimensions of their study, and collecting data. The emphasis of this subject is on the application of research knowledge gained in other subjects to the practical conduct of the individual honours project. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 4002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an embedded honours program in a health science program. This subject is specifically tailored to accommodate the program and progression requirements of such students and is not relevant as a general elective. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically review the literature specific to their study to develop the rationale for their research project.
Develop specific research questions, objectives or hypotheses for their honours study.
Compare and contrast possible research methods relevant to the conduct of their study.
Review ethical dimensions of their study and address the necessary ethical approval requirements relevant to the conduct of their research.
Critically select and provide a rationale for the choice of research methods for their study.
Design, trial and implement initial stages of data collection and analysis specific to the research project. Subject Content 1. Skills in literature searching and reviewing.
2. Critical review of the literature specific to their study to identify how the research project meets a gap in the research.
3. Development of a critical research rationale to demonstrate a gap in research knowledge.
4. Construction of research questions, objectives or hypotheses unique to the specific study.
5. Review of research methods suitable for the project.
6. Ethical dimensions of the specific honours study.
7. Practical sessions to address the ethical approval requirements relevant to the conduct of their research.
8. Practical mastery of the research methods through trial/piloting/training.
9. Implementation of the initial stages of data collection.
10. Preliminary analysis specific to the research project. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 4000 words 50 N Individual Y  Learning Contract 2500 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 mins 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Bye Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kym Hennessy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kym Hennessy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)