Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3016 Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy B Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401200 Coordinator Daniel Thomson Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on client assessment and treatment using manual physiotherapy techniques. An emphasis is placed on diagnostic reasoning and evaluation, understanding the implications of pathology in a physiotherapy context, prioritising problems and integrating manual therapy with other physiotherapy treatments. This requires strong communication skills, ethical and professional behaviour and an appreciation of interprofessional care. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3003 Equivalent Subjects REHA 3014 - Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4706 - Bachelor of Physiotherapy and 4733 - Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Hons). Students in this program are required to participate fully in practical classes. This involves disrobing to shorts and singlet or swim-suit equivalent in mixed gender classes. Students will practice hands-on physiotherapy examination and treatment techniques on both genders, and will personally experience these techniques which will be performed on them by other students and relevant academic staff. Assumed Knowledge Human anatomy, human physiology and pathophysiology equivalent to that covered in 400868 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1, 400869 - Human Anatomy and Phsyiology 2 and 400138 - Pathophysiology 1. Learning Outcomes Perform a safe and effective subjective and physical examination for a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Develop a problem list and list of differential diagnoses for a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Develop short and long-term goals for a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Demonstrate and explain the clinical reasoning in the use of appropriate physical examination procedures, exercise and manual therapy techniques for the client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Monitor and evaluate the effects of manual therapy on a client with a disability, dysfunction or disorder.
Apply professionalism, ethical behaviour and effective communication skills.
Integrate manual therapy with exercise and other physiotherapy modalities whilst working alongside other health professionals in the management of a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 20 minutes x 2 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Daniel Thomson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)