Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 5002 Clinical Practice: Infant and Child Nutrition and Feeding Credit Points 10 Coordinator Suza Trajkovski Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on infant feeding including breast feeding as a significant social and cultural process not just an issue of physiology and nutrition. The theoretical component of this subject will focus on the age-appropriate nutrition of infants and young children linked to developmental stages and the role the child and family health professional in supporting families manage associated issues. All areas of early nutrition will be covered including breastfeeding, use of breast-milk substitutes, introduction of solids and toddler nutrition. The knowledge gained in this subject will be consolidated through virtual clinical placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mothercraft Nursing and Family and Child Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 7012 - Clinical Practice Infant and Child Nutrition and Feeding Restrictions 4713 Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane), 4714 Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) or 4715 Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply evidenced based knowledge of the nutritional requirements for lactation, and for normal growth and development of infants and young children.
Evaluate the context of breastfeeding, formula feeding, weaning and infant feeding in Australia for child health outcomes and behaviours.
Comment on the value of breastfeeding and breast milk with pregnant and new mothers, fathers, and families to support the initiation of breastfeeding.
Interpret the World Health Organisation (WHO) code for the marketing of breast milk substitutes to evaluate their use and prevalence.
Utilise the socioecological approach to undertake a holistic assessment of nutritional needs of the family using a partnership approach with parents to support healthy eating patterns and nutritional requirements in infancy and early childhood. Subject Content Module 1 Socio-cultural context of infant and child nutrition and feeding Module 2 Breastfeeding and infant feeding decisions Module 3 Nutritional requirements and feeding practices in children Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review Presentation x 3 Infographics – 250 words for each image reflecting societal attitude on breastfeeding (20%) and Critical Analysis 1,500 words (40%) 60 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 20 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Rachel Gregory-Wilson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4715) Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Nursing (NURS)