Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 1006 Movement and Skill Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400891 Coordinator Kylie Steel Opens in new window Description This subject examines the scientific basis for movement and sports skill development.  An understanding of the principles of movement and motor skill and how they apply to performance is examined through a range of movement tasks required for track and field athletics and some team sports. Laboratory activities will focus upon the basic movement tasks of throwing, jumping, balancing, striking, running and rotary activities. An examination of the instruments used in efficient movement analysis is undertaken. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Incompatible Subjects HLTH 1008 - PDHPE Exploring Movement Skills HLTH 3013 - PDHPE Efficient Movement Principles Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4659 Bachelor of Health Science (PDHPE), 4549 - Bachelor of Health Science (PDHPE), 4742 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary), 4747 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the basic anatomy and physiology of the body necessary as a base for efficient movement.
Explain basic movement and skill acquisition principles as applied to human movement, with reference to all sports.
Demonstrate video analysis skills in relation to sport skill and game analysis.
Apply scientific principles in the improvement of motor skill performance.
Evaluate the motor skill performance of athletes of varying levels.
Identify the basic physical and mechanical principles which underlie movement. Subject Content 1. Revision of skeletal and muscular systems.
2. Movement principles: balance, force, levers, motion, momentum; associated with track and field athletics and some team sports.
3. Mechanical factors affecting motion in sport: friction, air, water resistance, gravity, impact, spin, elasticity.
4. Application of movement principles through practical sessions in a range of sports.
5. Evaluation of skill performance ? isolating specific motor patterns, determining and applying movement principles (coaching points), classifying skill to enhance performance, learning movement skills.
6. Cinematography ? use of videos for efficient movement analysis of sporting skills.
7. Practice and coaching considerations to enhance the acquisition and development of skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kylie Steel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kylie Steel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Other Health (HLTH) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110)