Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2031 History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102122 Coordinator Suzanne Kenney Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject provides opportunities for students to develop knowledge of the outcomes, subject matter, pedagogies and experiences that define the key learning area of History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship (HSIE). Key concepts of change in family history, local history, and Australia's history and understanding Australia as a Nation are explored. In Geography, concepts that develop a sense of curiosity about environments, peoples, cultures and place, in both Australia and the world, are a priority. In Civics and Citizenship, the focus is on relationships between the individual and the state, and the values and mutual responsibilities and obligations for civil, political and social participation in Australian society. It enables students to develop their own content knowledge and understandings, skills and dispositions necessary for planning, programming and teaching HSIE K-6. It promotes teaching strategies that prepare primary children for informed and effective citizenship, contributing to the quality of their society and environments. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2003 - Human Society and Its Environment (AREP) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of the disciplines, theories and pedagogies that underpin the learning area of HSIE K-6 to learning design.
Explain the aim, outcomes, stage statements, subject matter, skills, attitudes and values, perspectives and experiences defined in the NSW HSIE K-6 syllabus, and History, Geography and Civics and Citizenship syllabus documents in designing learning experiences for diverse learners in primary classrooms.
Design HSIE lesson sequences, programs, scope and sequence and assessment items using knowledge syllabuses and other curriculum requirements.
Identify and apply to lessons Aboriginal perspectives embedded in the HSIE K-6 syllabus.
Use assessment strategies to assess children's learning within the HSIE K-6 key learning area.
Explain the role and value of HSIE K-6 in the broader school curriculum and the relationship between HSIE K-6, and the general capabilities.
Select and utilise an array of resources that cater to the needs of diverse K-6 students in HSIE K-6 including students with special needs. Subject Content 1. The discipline, epistemological and pedagogical theories that underpin HSIE in terms of History, Geography and Civics and Citizenship K-6.
2. Nature and role of human society and its environment in relation to current and emerging concepts of change and continuity, cultures, environments, social systems and structures
3. History with a focus on Australia?fs history and understanding Australia as a nation, incorporating personal, local, national and global concepts, integration Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words  50 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words  50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Teacher Education (TEAC)