Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 3003 Integrated Clinical Rotations 1 Credit Points 80 Legacy Code 400810 Coordinator Priya Acharya Opens in new window Description This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Integrated Clinical Rotations 1 is the first major clinical year of the MBBS program.  It consists of 10 weeks each in Surgery, Medicine and Medicine in Context (MiC), and 5 weeks in Critical Care.  Surgery, Medicine and Critical Care attachments will be at Campbelltown, Blacktown, Mt Druitt, Bankstown, Fairfield and Liverpool hospitals.  In Surgery and Medicine students spend 5 weeks in each of two sub-specialities.  In Critical Care students spend time in Emergency and Anaesthetics Departments.  The 10-week MiC attachment is conducted in two 5-week blocks and involves community-based aspects of the health care system including community organisations and general practice.  Students also have 3 Conference Weeks; tutorials in clinical communication skills; and undertake an assignment in Evidence-Based Medicine and 3 online Scientific Streams learning modules. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 2002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4641 Bachelor of Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: As years 3-5 of the MBBS program are an integrated whole and students will undertake various aspects of the clinical and community programs asynchronously in any of the three years it is not possible to divide the learning outcomes on a year by year basis, so the overall course learning outcomes are presented below.  However, each of the attachments will have their own learning outcomes which will be made explicit to students in Learning Guides.




CURRICULUM THEMES


COURSE LEARNING OUTCOMES




1. Patient Care


Provides patient centred care as a member of an interdisciplinary team under appropriate supervision.




1.1 Communication


1.1.1 Communicates empathically and effectively with patients, families and health care team members to interact, negotiate, learn and foster understanding.
1.1.2 Establishes trusting relationships and communicates sensitively, empathically and effectively, without prejudice, with individuals and families from diverse backgrounds.
1.1.3 Creates and manages communication and information in all media, for example orally, in writing, electronically, by telephone.




1.2 Patient Assessment


1.2.1 Assesses patient health needs, attending to physical, functional, social, cultural and psychological factors.
1.2.2 Gathers a relevant and comprehensive patient history, generating and testing differential diagnoses
1.2.3 Performs an accurate and appropriate clinical examination, testing & refining differential diagnoses
1.2.4 Synthesises clinical findings to develop prioritised differential diagnoses and a comprehensive problem list
1.2.5 Selects, justifies and interprets investigations to evaluate likely diagnoses.




1.3 Patient Management


Develops, implements and monitors a management plan through a process of shared decision making which addresses the patient’s unique medical, psychological and social needs and preferences:
1.3.1 Formulates and implements (under supervision) a comprehensive management plan.
1.3.2 Ensures that management addresses the patient’s unique psycho-social, functional & cultural needs and preferences.
1.3.3 Explores the role of integrative and complementary therapies utilised by patients for their health care.
1.3.4 Monitors the effectiveness of management and provides continuity of care throughout the duration of clinical responsibility.
1.3.5 Makes timely, informed and rational decisions in circumstances of uncertainty according to best practice.
1.3.6 Performs an appropriate range of technical and practical procedures safely and effectively.
1.3.7 Prescribes and administers an appropriate range of medications and other therapeutic agents safely and effectively.
1.3.8 Recognises, assesses, initiates management and seeks assistance for deteriorating and critically unwell patients who require immediate care.




2. Health in the Community


Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia.




2.1 Determinants of Health & Illness


2.1.1 Evaluates the determinants of health and illness in populations.
2.1.2 Explains how health inequities arise from the interplay of biological, socio-economic, behavioural, sociocultural and environmental factors.
2.1.3 Discusses and evaluates the major issues and trends confronting global health, their determinants and effects on individuals and populations.




2.2 Health Needs


2.2.1 Analyses the health needs and priorities of communities and populations, taking into consideration the historical, cultural, social and political forces which impact on health and wellbeing.
2.2.2 Evaluates a range of strategies, including patient and population oriented approaches, for illness prevention and management, and health promotion.
2.2.3 Demonstrates culturally sensitive communication and effective engagement with diverse communities and populations.




2.3 Health Care Systems


2.3.1 Explains the roles of health agencies, services and providers and how they interact to provide health care to individuals and populations.
2.3.2 Evaluates the effectiveness of health care systems and services in addressing individual and population needs and priorities.  




2.4 Health Promotion


2.4.1 Promotes the health and well-being of individual patients and populations within the context of the culture, health status and health needs of the community of which that patient is a member.
2.4.2 Articulates the role of advocacy and public policy in promoting and protecting health and preventing disease.




2.5 Indigenous Health


2.5.1 Explains how various factors, including historical, cultural and political, interact to influence the health of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.




3. Personal and professional development 


Demonstrates and develops professional skills, responsibilities and attitudes




3.1 Ethical Practice


3.1.1 Aware of and adheres to accepted medical professional codes of conduct.
3.1.2 Applies ethical principles in professional practice.
3.1.3 Displays and reflects on, appropriate professional attitudes and values.
3.1.4 Values patient autonomy, privacy and confidentiality.
3.1.5 Aware of and complies with legal responsibilities and requirements, and the guidelines of regulatory bodies.
3.1.6 Maximises patient safety, ensures quality care, and manages risk and adverse medical outcomes




3.2 Teamwork


3.2.1 Works effectively and cooperatively as a member of a multidisciplinary team and as a member of the health care system.




3.3 Learning & Teaching


3.3.1 Engages in self and peer evaluation, lifelong learning and teaching.




3.4 Personal Needs


3.4.1 Recognises own personal, physical and emotional needs and is aware of the pathways available for assistance.




3.5 Medical humanities


3.5.1 Engages in scholarship of the arts and humanities to interpret the diverse human experience of health, illness and medical care.




4. Scientific basis of medicine


Develops and applies a sound understanding of the scientific foundations (social, basic and clinical) of medical practice.




4.1 Applies Science to Practice


Applies an understanding of the social and biomedical sciences to the assessment and management of the health needs of individuals and populations:
4.1.1 Demonstrates an understanding of the body as a complex adaptive biological system.
4.1.2 Applies an understanding of the basic, social and clinical sciences to clinical reasoning.
4.1.3 Explains the underlying mechanisms of health problems.
4.1.4 Explains the underlying mechanisms of investigative and therapeutic measures, including emerging technologies.
4.1.5 Applies an understanding of the psychological and social sciences to interpret health and illness within a social and cultural context.




4.2 Uses Evidence


Seeks, critically appraises and applies best available evidence relevant to health and illness in individuals and populations.




4.3 Research


4.3.1 Takes opportunities to engage in research and scientific endeavour.
4.3.2 Applies an understanding of research rigour by formulating answerable research questions, selecting appropriate study designs, synthesising, critically analysing and disseminating research findings.
4.3.3 Applies an understanding of ethical principles, and relevant guidelines and laws, to the conduct of research As years 3-5 of the MBBS program are an integrated whole and students will undertake various aspects of the clinical and community programs asynchronously in any of the three years it is not possible to divide the learning outcomes on a year by year basis, so the overall course learning outcomes are presented below.  However, each of the attachments will have their own learning outcomes which will be made explicit to students in Learning Guides. CURRICULUM THEMES COURSE LEARNING OUTCOMES 1. Patient Care Provides patient centred care as a member of an interdisciplinary team under appropriate supervision. 1.1 Communication 1.1.1 Communicates empathically and effectively with patients, families and health care team members to interact, negotiate, learn and foster understanding. 1.1.2 Establishes trusting relationships and communicates sensitively, empathically and effectively, without prejudice, with individuals and families from diverse backgrounds. 1.1.3 Creates and manages communication and information in all media, for example orally, in writing, electronically, by telephone. 1.2 Patient Assessment 1.2.1 Assesses patient health needs, attending to physical, functional, social, cultural and psychological factors. 1.2.2 Gathers a relevant and comprehensive patient history, generating and testing differential diagnoses 1.2.3 Performs an accurate and appropriate clinical examination, testing & refining differential diagnoses 1.2.4 Synthesises clinical findings to develop prioritised differential diagnoses and a comprehensive problem list 1.2.5 Selects, justifies and interprets investigations to evaluate likely diagnoses. 1.3 Patient Management Develops, implements and monitors a management plan through a process of shared decision making which addresses the patient’s unique medical, psychological and social needs and preferences: 1.3.1 Formulates and implements (under supervision) a comprehensive management plan. 1.3.2 Ensures that management addresses the patient’s unique psycho-social, functional & cultural needs and preferences. 1.3.3 Explores the role of integrative and complementary therapies utilised by patients for their health care. 1.3.4 Monitors the effectiveness of management and provides continuity of care throughout the duration of clinical responsibility. 1.3.5 Makes timely, informed and rational decisions in circumstances of uncertainty according to best practice. 1.3.6 Performs an appropriate range of technical and practical procedures safely and effectively. 1.3.7 Prescribes and administers an appropriate range of medications and other therapeutic agents safely and effectively. 1.3.8 Recognises, assesses, initiates management and seeks assistance for deteriorating and critically unwell patients who require immediate care. 2. Health in the Community Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia. 2.1 Determinants of Health & Illness 2.1.1 Evaluates the determinants of health and illness in populations. 2.1.2 Explains how health inequities arise from the interplay of biological, socio-economic, behavioural, sociocultural and environmental factors. 2.1.3 Discusses and evaluates the major issues and trends confronting global health, their determinants and effects on individuals and populations. 2.2 Health Needs 2.2.1 Analyses the health needs and priorities of communities and populations, taking into consideration the historical, cultural, social and political forces which impact on health and wellbeing. 2.2.2 Evaluates a range of strategies, including patient and population oriented approaches, for illness prevention and management, and health promotion. 2.2.3 Demonstrates culturally sensitive communication and effective engagement with diverse communities and populations. 2.3 Health Care Systems 2.3.1 Explains the roles of health agencies, services and providers and how they interact to provide health care to individuals and populations. 2.3.2 Evaluates the effectiveness of health care systems and services in addressing individual and population needs and priorities. 2.4 Health Promotion 2.4.1 Promotes the health and well-being of individual patients and populations within the context of the culture, health status and health needs of the community of which that patient is a member. 2.4.2 Articulates the role of advocacy and public policy in promoting and protecting health and preventing disease. 2.5 Indigenous Health 2.5.1 Explains how various factors, including historical, cultural and political, interact to influence the health of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 3. Personal and professional development Demonstrates and develops professional skills, responsibilities and attitudes 3.1 Ethical Practice 3.1.1 Aware of and adheres to accepted medical professional codes of conduct. 3.1.2 Applies ethical principles in professional practice. 3.1.3 Displays and reflects on, appropriate professional attitudes and values. 3.1.4 Values patient autonomy, privacy and confidentiality. 3.1.5 Aware of and complies with legal responsibilities and requirements, and the guidelines of regulatory bodies. 3.1.6 Maximises patient safety, ensures quality care, and manages risk and adverse medical outcomes 3.2 Teamwork 3.2.1 Works effectively and cooperatively as a member of a multidisciplinary team and as a member of the health care system. 3.3 Learning & Teaching 3.3.1 Engages in self and peer evaluation, lifelong learning and teaching. 3.4 Personal Needs 3.4.1 Recognises own personal, physical and emotional needs and is aware of the pathways available for assistance. 3.5 Medical humanities 3.5.1 Engages in scholarship of the arts and humanities to interpret the diverse human experience of health, illness and medical care. 4. Scientific basis of medicine Develops and applies a sound understanding of the scientific foundations (social, basic and clinical) of medical practice. 4.1 Applies Science to Practice Applies an understanding of the social and biomedical sciences to the assessment and management of the health needs of individuals and populations: 4.1.1 Demonstrates an understanding of the body as a complex adaptive biological system. 4.1.2 Applies an understanding of the basic, social and clinical sciences to clinical reasoning. 4.1.3 Explains the underlying mechanisms of health problems. 4.1.4 Explains the underlying mechanisms of investigative and therapeutic measures, including emerging technologies. 4.1.5 Applies an understanding of the psychological and social sciences to interpret health and illness within a social and cultural context. 4.2 Uses Evidence Seeks, critically appraises and applies best available evidence relevant to health and illness in individuals and populations. 4.3 Research 4.3.1 Takes opportunities to engage in research and scientific endeavour. 4.3.2 Applies an understanding of research rigour by formulating answerable research questions, selecting appropriate study designs, synthesising, critically analysing and disseminating research findings. 4.3.3 Applies an understanding of ethical principles, and relevant guidelines and laws, to the conduct of research Subject Content 1. Three Conference Weeks
2. 10 weeks of Surgery in a hospital practicum
3. 10 weeks of Medicine in a hospital practicum
4. 10 weeks of Medicine in Context in community-based practicum
5. Five weeks of Critical Care in a hospital practicum
6. Three Scientific Streams online learning packages (25 hours each)
7. One Evidence-Based Medicine project Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you
1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one
2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history
3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements
4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff.
International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as
• If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements
• If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements.
• NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire program.
• Other non-health related requirements. Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 2 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 x 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 1 hour 20 mins S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Year Long S/U Y Individual Y  Learning Contract Year Long S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Priya Acharya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Priya Acharya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)