Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4029 Speech Pathology Practice 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401432 Coordinator Ellie Sugden Opens in new window Description This fourth clinical practice subject will operationalise the knowledge and skills developed during four years of speech pathology study, to provide appropriate and holistic care for individuals, families and communities. Students will undertake 32 days of supervised clinical practice in diverse speech pathology contexts including, but not limited to   hospitals, community health, school, private practice, not for profit, disability or on-campus settings.  Professional competencies addressed in this subject include communication, documentation, reflection and professional and ethical behaviour. In addition, students will consolidate and extend their skills in client assessment, interpretation of findings, planning and implementation of speech pathology services, education, advocacy and advice.  Students will be working at an entry level of professional competency during this clinical subject. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 4028 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4030 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology, 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) or 4788 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have a sound knowledge of communication and swallowing development and changes across the lifespan and evidence- based approaches to the assessment and management of communication and mealtimes with individuals, families and communities before undertaking this subject. Students are expected to have developed near entry level clinical skills (CBOS 2011;17), including sound approaches to clinical reasoning and reflection before attempting Speech Pathology Practice 4. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Assess, analyse, plan, implement and manage speech pathology services for individuals, families and communities at “Entry Level’ competency as evidenced by the COMPASS® Competency Assessment Tool.
Apply professional, safe and ethical work practices in all speech pathology settings at 'Entry Level' competency.
Critically appraise own and peer's contributions to the development of the speech pathology profession through scholarly discussion of complex speech pathology practice issues.
Create an individual plan and strategies for continuing professional development as a new graduate speech pathologist. Subject Content Within this subject, students will be allocated to a 32 day placement with either a paediatric, adult or lifespan focus. In the subject REHA 4028 Speech Pathology Practice 3 (Autumn Session, Yr. 4), students will be allocated the alternate placement (i.e. either paediatric, adult  or lifespan placement) so that by the end of their complete fourth year students will have gained experience working with clients across the lifespan. During workshops:
Students will engage in interactive learning experiences that integrate academic and clinical competencies in the following topics: Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. National Criminal History Check: Students must have a current check valid for their entire program. A valid National Criminal history check must be an Australia-wide check, include the student's full name matching their Student ID card and date of birth and not have any offences listed. If a student has a criminal history identified on their check, they must provide a clearance or authority document or conditional letter from their relevant authorised state organisation. International students must additionally have a translated International Police Check or statutory declaration.
2. A Working with Children Check (WWCC) clearance letter or state equivalent, valid for their entire program.
3. A current approved first aid certificate valid for their entire program.  Approved provider courses can be found at http://training.gov.au.
4. A completed vaccination/immunisation card with all serology results attached - currency must be maintained by the student to ensure compliance for their entire program.
5. Undertaking/Declaration form (or state equivalent documents).
6. Additional forms as required per state related to, but not limited to: Tuberculosis Assessment tool; Hepatitis B statutory declaration form' Signed Code of Conduct; Student Deed Poll and all other state equivalent documents as required. Contact your school for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub web page.
https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/placements_hub
7. Relevant Local Health District specific documentation as requested. Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website:
https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance
Some external sites may have additional requirements. Students will be advised of any such specified requirements which must be complied with before commencing clinical placements. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 32 days (x 8 hr/day) and COMPASS task requirements S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 1,500 words  S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes S/U Y Group Y  Viva Voce 15 minutes  S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Ellie Sugden Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)