Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 1014 Public Health (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500058 Coordinator Maria Dent Opens in new window Description The subject introduces fundamental concepts of public health. Public health is examined from individual, community, historical, contemporary, cultural, gender, ethnic, economic, political, environmental, population, emergency and epidemiological perspectives. The subject shows how innovation and development in public health thinking and practice have improved the health of populations in Australia and globally. Continuing and recently emerging challenges to local, Indigenous, national and international public health are explored, along with public health challenges facing future generations. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 1012 Public Health PUBH 2016 Public Health Restrictions Students Must be enrolled in: 7171 Undergraduate Certificate in Public Health support Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define physical and mental health in the public health context from historical and contemporary perspectives.
Explain how developments in public health concepts, policy, practice have influenced public health from early to modern times.
Describe the current burden of disease from communicable, non-communicable, infectious, chronic and acute categories of disease.
Identify risk and protective factors, including physiological, social, behavioural and environmental determinants of health, morbidity and mortality, and preventative health strategies.
Investigate major threats to public health, continuing, emerging and re-emerging in local, national and international contexts.
Analyse a public health emergency and describe appropriate responses.
Examine government, organisational and individual strategies and countermeasures for maintaining and improving public health. Subject Content 1.Definitions of physical and mental health applicable to public health.
2.The history of public health from pre-modern to modern times and the New Public Health.
3.Indigenous health.
4.Models of disease, including communicable, non-communicable, infectious, chronic and acute.
5.Defining characteristics and exemplars of public health emergencies, and appropriate responses.
6.Causes and determinants of disease and ill-health among specified populations and community groups.
7.An introduction to the role of epidemiology in determining the burden of disease and public health needs among specified populations and community groups.
8.Environment and public health ? locally, nationally and internationally.
9.Society, culture and health ? locally, nationally and internationally.
10.Gender and health ? locally, nationally and internationally.
11.Politics, economics, globalisation, population and health ? locally, nationally and internationally.
12.Elements of population-based disease prevention and control strategies.
13.Models of individual behaviour and health; behaviour change through public health campaigns.
14.The role of governments, non-government, national and international agencies, corporate entities and individual action in public health policy, practice, advocacy and outcomes. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 600 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Critical Review 1400 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH) Undergraduate Certificate in Public Health Support (7171)