Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7025 Professional Psychology Placement Credit Points 0 Legacy Code 102539 Coordinator Paul Strutt Opens in new window Description This placement subject provides students with an opportunity to apply knowledge gained in coursework subjects to professional practice and to practice, under clinical supervision, basic assessment and intervention skills with real clients. Each student must undertake a minimum of 300 hours of supervised placements, participate in the mandatory workshops and present at a case presentation to complete the course. This requirement is consistent with standards prescribed by APAC, the course accrediting body. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7015 AND
BEHV 7029 AND
BEHV 7014 AND
BEHV 7003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1814 Master of Professional Psychology. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate interviewing skills, psychological assessment, and case-formulation competencies at a beginner’s level for one or two highly prevalent psychological problems, including with culturally diverse populations, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.3, 3.5 & 3.6),
Apply psychometric and clinical assessment techniques to a highly prevalent health, disability, or mental health problem (APAC GA: 3.4, 3.5 & 3.6). 
Demonstrate advanced-beginner competencies in core counselling techniques, including with culturally diverse populations, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples (APAC GA: 3.3 & 3.7),
Demonstrate intervention skills at the advanced beginner level in one empirically supported treatment approach (e.g., motivational interviewing, behaviour therapy, cognitive therapy) for a highly prevalent health or mental health problem, including with culturally diverse populations, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.3, 3.9 & 3.16).
Display professionalism, professional communication competencies and ethical conduct in accordance with the Code of Conduct endorsed by the Psychology Board of Australia and meet all of the course inherent requirements. This includes professional engagement with and showing respect for the skills and contributions of other involved professionals (APAC GA: 3.10, 3.11, 3.12 & 3.13).
Comply with accreditation requirements concerning practicum, casework and supervision hours associated with such a placement (APAC GA: 3.2-3.16).
Conceptualise and communicate clinical information at the formal professional level
Demonstrate scientist-practitioner and reflective practitioner meta-competencies at the beginner level. This includes evaluating the effectiveness of own practice and making changes as required (APAC GA: 3.11,3.12, 3.14 & 3.15). Subject Content Supervised clinical placement in a setting relevant to the specific program.
Attendance and participation in three placement experience workshops. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook Placement supervisor assess intern’s performance at the end of the placement using a standard assessment rating form. S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook Must be submitted within 4 weeks of completing placement.  Graded by Placement Coordinator S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Simulation 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Strutt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Strutt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Professional Psychology (1814)