Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 1021 Professional Practice Experience 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401004 Coordinator Katherine Cooper Opens in new window Description Professional Practice Experience 2 focuses on the development of the role and clinical skills of the registered nurse when promoting, maintaining, and supporting person centred care.  A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and a professional experience placement to evaluate clinical skills development. The subject includes 80 hours of Professional Experience Placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 1020 - Professional Practice Experience 1 (PPE1) Co-requisite(s) NURS 1024 - Bioscience 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) Assumed Knowledge Prior knowledge would include the role and clinical skills of the registered nurse when promoting, maintaining, and supporting a person’s health and wellbeing across the lifespan, including foundational clinical skills for safe nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of safe medication administration in clinical scenarios within a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Accurately and timely document assessments and nursing care plans.
Appraise principles and best practice of intraprofessional and interprofessional communication in nursing.
Use assessment data and best available evidence to inform a person centred care plan across the lifespan.
Perform safe medication administration, with a focus of non-parenteral medications, promoting, maintaining, and supporting person centred care in a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in nursing. Subject Content Normal health changes across the lifespan
National Health Priorities: Injury, prevention and control: Obesity
Nursing Assessment
Low acuity/temporary health variations
Introduction to the care of the dying person and family
Numeracy for medication calculations
Working in multi-disciplinary teams
Health assessment related to an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander - obesity case history
Clinical Practicum Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 80 hours S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Katherine Cooper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Katherine Cooper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Asiye Kopan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Asiye Kopan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Katherine Cooper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Katherine Cooper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Laura Mellish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)