Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 2004 Electronics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300025 Coordinator Ali Hellany Opens in new window Description This subject further develops skills in the analysis, design, practical implementation and testing of the main analogue electronic circuits. Topics covered are: semiconductor diodes and their applications, Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJT), Field Effect Transistors (FET), analysis of BJT and FET, design of discrete operational amplifiers, and operational amplifier characteristics and circuit configurations. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electronic Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 1003 OR
ELEC 1009 Equivalent Subjects ELEC 2005 - Electronics (WSTC AssocD) Assumed Knowledge The prior knowledge on Vibrations and wave phenomena; Photoelectric effect, atomic structure and periodic table; Electricity and magnetism are required. Students should have a sound understanding on: basic principles of analysing an electric circuit; Kirchhoff's Voltage and Current laws and their use in electric circuits; Nodal analysis, mesh analysis and superposition analysis in DC electric circuits; Thevenin and Norton equivalent and their use in electric circuits; The storage elements capacitor and inductor and understand their performance in first and second order circuits. Learning Outcomes Explain the basic structure and mode of operation of pn junction diode.
Conduct an AC and DC analysis of a circuit with pn junction diode.
Explain the basic structure and mode of operations of BJT, MOSFET transistors and operational amplifiers.
Conduct an AC and DC analysis of single-stage amplifying circuits using BJT, MOSFET transistors and operational amplifiers.
Design simple electronic circuits for a given specification and application.
Use Electronics Workbench as a tool to simulate and understand electronic circuits Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 3 hours and 5 pages (per Practical) 20 Y Group/Individual Y  Quiz 10-15 minutes (per Quiz) - Max 6 Quizzes 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 1.5 hours 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105)