Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2012 Graphics 3: 3D Engineering Specifications and Visualisation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301079 Coordinator Jean Payette Opens in new window Description From 2020, this subject will be replaced by 301290 - Design Graphics: Communication for Manufacture. This subject introduces formal graphical communication methods used by professionals engaged in the design, manufacture and management of manufactured items. Students will learn how to follow Australian Standards for engineering drawings, and to use Computer-Aided Design (CAD) software for accurately representing and modelling basic parts and assemblies. The documentation of design concepts in the form of three dimensional (3D) computer models provides data that can be applied in a wide variety of ways to facilitate the understanding and production of parts and assemblies. The objective of this subject is to introduce students to the industry standard software and hardware employed to generate these models, via a "hands on" approach to creating 3D data. Issues such as data transfer, rapid prototyping, computer numerical control (CNC) machining and visualisation will also be discussed. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 2011 OR
ENGR 1024 Equivalent Subjects ENGR 2014 Industrial Graphics 2 Transition Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Assessment 1: 3D modeling & Surfaces exercises. 2x solid modelling & surfaces exercises 10 N Individual   Assessment 2. Reverse engineering of an existing product 15 to 20 pages x A3 engineering drawings 40 N Individual   Assessment 3. Product design and detailing 15 to 20 pages x A3 engineering drawings and a short simulation demonstration 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)