Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2026 Japanese 203 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102030 Coordinator Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window Description This subject further develops students' language skills acquired in Japanese 201 to equip students with more sophisticated language skills and knowledge. Among the topics covered in Japanese 203 are: stating a plan or intention, making a suggestion in the plain form, offering advice, indicating the degree of certainty, describing a change in state, indicating causes of reasons, using of the passive and the imperative, etc. By the end of this subject, students will be able to read and write approximately 380 kanji characters. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Japanese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School).  Note: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Japanese are encouraged to enrol in Japanese 204 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2031 - Language Communication Skills 2B Japanese Assumed Knowledge Japanese 201 or knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: understand and use basic grammatical structures and frequently used phrases;
read relatively long essays and stories on various topics;
write short essays on various topics;
demonstrate understanding of Japanese modern culture and society;
read and write approximately 380 kanji characters;
use a broad lexical base and common expressions in a range of socio-cultural contexts and situations involving other learners and native speakers;
read a range of basic text types and respond appropriately, either orally or in writing Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2 x A4 pages (in Japanese) 30 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours maximum 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)