Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5034 Science Curriculum 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102899 Coordinator Gail Walker Opens in new window Description The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of Science related to STEM. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with teaching STEM projects connected to Science across strands and programs in years 7-10. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus, STEM Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Science and STEM teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant data and contexts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. There will be a focus on the development of laboratory skills and techniques including aspects of general and mandatory safety requirements. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of applied and inquiry-based Science learning will be presented. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7027 AND
TEAC 7004 AND
TEAC 7032 Restrictions Students in program 1714 or 1848 must have a relevant Science Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical inquiry theories and approaches used in the Science and STEM curriculum area, including those of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of authentic project based assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design creative and innovative teaching STEM programs that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching Science and include opportunities to develop students’ number, spatial, data analysis, problem-solving and graphing skills and understanding.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and apply a variety of laboratory skills and techniques including aspects of general and mandatory safety requirements in the laboratory.
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of STEM. Subject Content What is the nature of the STEM in Science in the early and middle years of secondary education? How is the subject linked to what is taught in primary school and in the senior years of secondary education?
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about STEM applications to Science? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2018). Science 7-10 syllabus. Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)