Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7070 General Surgical and Central Nervous System Pathology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401472 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description This subject uses a blended learning approach to introduce diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities of neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology, skin and soft tissue pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the central nervous system and spinal cord. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7032 - Surgical Pathology 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology) postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialties of neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology, skin and soft tissue pathology.
Examine ancillary techniques in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions within the subspecialties of neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology, skin and soft tissue pathology.
Analyse important common and uncommon disease entities in Neuropathology, including a number of non-neoplastic, benign and malignant diagnoses.
Define the resources needed and technical requirements to reach the correct diagnosis.
Produce a diagnostic case study report to the professional standard required of a pathologist. Subject Content This subject covers the following organ systems:
Neuropathology
Cardiorespiratory system pathology
Genito-urinary tract pathology
Salivary gland pathology
Endocrine system pathology
Skin pathology
Soft tissue pathology
Students will be required to generate 10 case studies relevant to the above systems, which will include completing a review of the relevant literature, interpretation and application to diagnosis. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students need to meet the legislative requirements to be in a supervised specialist training role in Pathology, and hence be working clinically in a hospital/laboratory setting. If a student fails to meet these requirements they will not be allowed to enrol in the subject. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 10 cases - 50-100 words each S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tristan Rutland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Medicine (Pathology) (4750) Medical Studies (MEDI)