Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2043 Writing Fiction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100896 Coordinator Helen Koukoutsis Opens in new window Description In this subject students explore, critically examine, and write in a range of fictional and essay forms. They critique a wide variety of published fiction in order to enhance their understanding of approaches, possibilities, and techniques, thereby developing a greater capacity to write and critically evaluate their own work. Students create their own fiction in the form of written exercises and assignments, which they will have the opportunity to workshop and present to peers in a supportive and constructive critical environment. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 6562 - Creative Writing LGYB 4536 - Writing Fiction Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Compose a range of short and long fictional and critically reflective pieces using numerous techniques explored in class.
2. Critically examine published texts in order to develop an awareness of the approaches and techniques employed in the writing of fiction.
3. Present to peers workshop-led writing and draft compositions for constructive feedback.
4. Evaluate a range of published and peers’ fictional compositions.
5. Write and speak clearly and effectively. Subject Content 1. The critiquing of published texts in order to examine the various approaches and techniques deployed in writing fiction.
2. The use of written exercises in order to give students practical experience of creating fiction using numerous techniques examined in class.
3. The setting of critical and creative assignments that give students the opportunity to demonstrate their awareness, understanding and practical mastery of these techniques and approaches.
4. The use of workshops to develop students' writing and awareness of the drafting process, as well as the implementation of graded activities/participation for the regular presentation and evaluation of original draft compositions in a supportive workshop-based environment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,200 words (combined) +  weekly in-class activities 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words
 25 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,200 words 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)