Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 2019 Citizenship and Community Engagement Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800238 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description The subject provides second and third year students enrolled in Advanced degrees or the Bachelor of Creative Leadership with opportunities to develop professional identity through exposure to workplaces, community settings and research processes related to their chosen field of study. Students will gain work experience while being encouraged to identify, examine, and discuss notions of citizenship and identity encountered in intercultural and diverse environments. This cross-disciplinary subject employs experiential learning in a 60-hour volunteering internship to achieve the learning outcomes. Individual or team internships are chosen in consultation with Academy staff to ensure their relevance to the learning outcomes. School Social Sciences Discipline Behavioural Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 2007 - Internship and Community Engagement Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their course with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this unit. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Enrolment in the unit for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes 1. Identify intersections between knowledge of (multi)-disciplinary backgrounds and how to navigate work environments as successful leaders.
2. Develop a professional identity by conducting workplace-related tasks and gaining work experience.
3. Identify where relationships between disciplinary knowledge and skills, notions of intercultural competency and citizenship, can enable contribution to broader societal transformation.
4. Analyse the impact of citizenship and creative practices on leadership in the workplace and/or community setting.
5. Design creative solutions and innovative practices to solve challenges identified in the workplace and/or community setting. Subject Content 1. Developing professional identity, culture, intercultural literacy, and intercultural competency. 
2. Cultural identity, intra- and interpersonal communication, active listening,  
3. Leadership practices: Citizenship, civics, ethics, and diversity.
4. Principles of community engagement, development, and empowerment. 
5. Reflective practice for personal and professional development. Branding and personal branding. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students participating in a NSW Public Health related placement must meet the following Special Legislative Requirements. Students who do not meet these requirements, will not be able to take their placement:
1. National Criminal History Check: Students must have a current (expiring 3 years from date of issue) check valid for their entire course. A valid National Criminal history check must be an Australia wide check, include the student's full name matching their Student ID card and date of birth and not have any offences listed. If a student has a criminal history identified on their check, they must provide a Clinical Placement Authority Card (CPAC) or conditional letter from the NSW HealthShare Employment Screening and Review Unit
https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/careers/student_clearance/Documents/appendix-10-student-application.pdf
International students must additionally have a translated International Police Check or statutory declaration.
2. A NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) clearance letter issued under the category of volunteer valid for their entire course.
3. A current approved first aid certificate valid for their entire course, approved provider courses can be found at
http://training.gov.au
4. A completed vaccination/immunisation card with all serology results containing expiry dates and currency must be maintained by the student to ensure compliance for their entire course.
5. NSW Undertaking/Declaration form
6. Completed any additional health forms required (such as NSW Health Code of Conduct, Health Student Undertaking/Declaration and Tuberculosis (TB) Assessment Tool)
7. Relevant Local Health District specific documentation as requested.
Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website
www.westernsydney.edu.au/compliancehub Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words and 7 minutes 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task Minimum 60 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Social Science (Advanced) (1733) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Creative Leadership, Minor (0286) Global Sustainability, Minor (0196) Ideate. Strategise. Innovate., Minor (0336) Social Sciences, Major (0216)