Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 3012 Growth, Cycles and Crises Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200925 Coordinator Andrew Marks Opens in new window Description Growth, Cycles and Crises gives students an up-to-date understanding of macroeconomic developments, empirical puzzles, theoretical controversies and policy dilemmas of the day. It begins with an overview of different schools of thought and their historical roots. There follows an investigation of recent global crises, their underlying causes, and the policy responses in the major economic powers. We also consider the stresses on Australia resulting from global economic fluctuations and shifts, causing disruptive exchange rate swings and fiscal difficulties. Finally with major developments around the world and the controversies arising from them, such as debt crises and austerity debate, the problem of unbalanced growth in rapidly developing economies, and stagnation and policy zigzags apparent in some advanced economies. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects ECON 3005 - Economic Theories Controversies and Policies Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate alternative theoretical approaches to macroeconomic analysis.
Identify the theoretical perspectives of economic commentators.
Interpret and evaluate empirical findings relating to macroeconomic relationships.
Critically evaluate claims, predictions and policy recommendations regarding the domestic and international macroeconomy. Subject Content 1. New classical, new Keynesians and post-Keynesians schools of macroeconomic thought.
2. Unemployment and inflation: alternative theories and evidence.
3. Overview of macroeconomic policy tools and dilemmas.
4. Fiscal policy controversies.
5. Monetary policy controversies.
6. Adjustment of the Australian macroeconomy to global shifts and fluctuations.
7. Macroeconomic dilemmas and controversies in the USA, Asia and Europe. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Summary 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Andrew Marks Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Economics for Secondary Teaching, Minor (0141) Economics, Testamur Major (T039) Economy and Markets, Major (0008) Macroeconomics, Minor (0293)