Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3050 Screen Media: Capstone Production Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102834 Coordinator Wendy Chandler Opens in new window Description In this subject students produce projects that were planned and developed in the previous subject, Screen Media: Capstone Development. This subject provides the opportunity for students to consolidate theoretical knowledge and practise-based skills acquired throughout their course to produce a substantial screen media project. Students may choose to take on a leadership role such as producer or director, or students may choose develop their skills targeted to their own area of interest. This may involve a specific production area or crew role which may be undertaken on more than one project. Students will also produce an online portfolio featuring key achievements made throughout the course, for the purpose of enhancing graduate employment prospects. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 3049 - Screen Media Capstone Development Equivalent Subjects - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Produce a screen media project that incorporates relevant theory and industry standard production workflows and practices.
Consolidate skills and knowledge in a particular production role or roles of interest.
Work both independently and collaboratively to effectively produce an interdisciplinary screen media project.
Apply reflective practice strategies to guide and problem solve in relation to screen media production.
Produce a portfolio website. Subject Content Industry standard screen media production and post-production workflows.
The production and delivery of a screen media project to industry standards.
The refinement of skills and knowledge in a particular production role or roles of interest.
Critical reflection strategies in relation to screen media production.
Online portfolio production. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual N  Proposal 2,000 words or Equivalent 20 N Group N  Applied Project Up to 10 mins or equivalent 30 N Group N  Reflection 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015)