Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4023 Advanced Engineering Thesis Credit Points 60 Legacy Code 300668 Coordinator Yingyan Zhang Opens in new window Description This is a 60 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (30 credit points in each term).This subject provides students with the opportunity to conduct original research on their chosen topics under the supervision of academics. Students are encouraged to disseminate their research results as refereed publications. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 30cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 6084 - Engineering Thesis ENGR 4005 - Engineering Project ENGR 4033 Honours Thesis Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3666 Bachelor of Engineering (Advanced). Students must have successfully completed 220 credit points and must have a program GPA equal to or greater than 5.5. Students must enrol in this subject in two consecutive halves (e.g. 1H and 2H for start year intake, or 2H in the current year and 1H in the following year for mid-year intake). Assumed Knowledge Honours level across the student's major. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an ability to undertake self-motivated research with minimal supervision.
Evaluate previous research, its relevance to the topic given and where the given topic builds onto the previous research.
Apply to a specific area of interest the knowledge learned in the first 220 credit points of study.
Recognise potential valuable research outcomes to the particular field and to the realm of Engineering. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Progress report Equivalent of 12,000 words including the write-up, tables, figures and equations. 10 N Individual   Thesis Equivalent to 80 pages - 30,000 to 40,000 words including the write-up, tables, figures and equations. 80 N Individual   Oral presentation Extended abstract - maximum 2 pages. 10 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)