Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 1003 Animal Science Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300801 Coordinator Julie Old Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with an understanding of comparative physiological and anatomical concepts of a range of mammalian and avian species. Students will develop the skills to apply these concepts in practical situations through the use of field observations and the relationship of these to functional anatomy and physiology of production animals. In addition students will develop many of the principles and concepts employed in animal production. Concepts discussed in lectures are reinforced by practical classes held in the laboratory and in the outdoor laboratories. School Science Discipline Animal Husbandry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects AGRI 1002 - Animal Science Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define key terms and concepts associated with mammalian and avian production animal anatomy and physiology.
Compare anatomy and physiology of mammalian and avian production animals.
Evaluate animal production systems.
Handle production animal species; record observations and reflect on the behaviour of production animal species. Subject Content Physiology, anatomy and behavior of a range of animal species
Functional anatomy and physiology in practical context Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 3 minutes 15 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 25 N Individual N  Literature Review 1,000 words 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Adrian Renshaw Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189)