Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 7005 Advanced Signal Processing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300596 Coordinator Jeffrey Zou Opens in new window Description This subject covers the principles and techniques in signal processing. The subject matter includes advanced topics in discrete-time signals and systems, the z-transform and its applications in signal processing, advanced topics in the sampling of continuous-time signals, FIR and IIR filter design, filter structures, and the discrete Fourier transform and its computation. Students develop skills of analysing and designing digital signal processing systems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5840 - Signal Processing 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Engineering mathematics, circuit theory, signals and systems. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse discrete-time signals and systems mathematically;
Explain the z-transform and its applications in signal processing mathematically;
Explain the sampling of continuous-time signals mathematically;
Design FIR and IIR filters;
Analyse filter structures mathematically;
Explain the discrete Fourier transform mathematically and apply it to signal processing. Subject Content Advanced topics in discrete-time signals and systems
The z-transform and its applications in signal processing
Advanced topics in the sampling of continuous-time signals
FIR and IIR filter design
Filter structures
The discrete Fourier transform and its computation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 5 pages each 20 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hour 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jeffrey Zou Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Biomedical, Testamur Major (T055) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical and Telecommunication, Testamur Major (T113) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Telecommunication and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T115) Telecommunication, Testamur Major (T075)