Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3083 Global Sports Management Credit Points 10 Coordinator Chris Yorke Opens in new window Description Sport is a complex, multi-billion-dollar industry that attracts widespread global attention. However, the international nature of the sports industry presents many management challenges and opportunities for sports organisations. This subject explores the global nature of the sports industry and offers students insights into sports governance, tourism and marketing in an international context. Students will learn how governments and other organisations mobilise sport to achieve various social, cultural and financial outcomes that benefit both the business and the wider community. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes Assess the strategy and performance of sports businesses and organisations in an international sporting market. 
Critique the management of international sports for development and sports diplomacy projects.
Analyse the role of the international sporting federations responsible for managing sport integrity in a global context. 
Evaluate strategies and current trends in sports tourism and mega-event management, drawing on international contexts and examples. Subject Content Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and diversity in global sports management
Role of international federations in managing sport 
Socio-economic impacts of sports mega-events and tourism management 
Social media, fan engagement and the marketing of global sport
Global sport for development programs and initiatives
Sport and international diplomacy 
Current trends and future challenges in global sport management Special Requirements Essential equipment An iPad (or equivalent smart device) or laptop (PC/MAC) is essential to complete assessment items and engage in tutorial activities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2500 words equivalent 40 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 30 N Group N  Quiz 20 minutes (per Quiz) 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Chris Yorke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Business and Management (BUSM) Sport Development, Minor (0254) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303)