Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1042 Introduction to Business Analytics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201090 Coordinator Abdul Babar Opens in new window Description The subject will introduce, explore and analyse key concepts and methodologies related to business analytics, analytics development and tools/techniques in broader business and organisational contexts. The ability to identify, collect, extract, analyse and visualise data is vital to organisations for developing strategies and making strategic/operational decisions. Business analytics uses a variety of tools and techniques using several systems/platforms to process and transform data into useful information and knowledge that can be used for evidence-based decision making at strategic, tactical and operational levels. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and classify business problems that require business intelligence from business analytics.
Apply business analytics development methodologies to business problems.
Recommend business analytics techniques, tools and methodologies in applied case scenarios.
Explain ethical and governance aspects of business analytics applications.
Evaluate the tools and techniques used in developing business analytics applications (e.g. dashboards) and performance reports.
Collaborate with team members in a productive manner supporting diverse viewpoints in relation to business analytics. Subject Content Overview of data, business analytics tools/techniques and organisation context
Working with big data to address management challenges
Data and Information for management decision making
Model Building for strategic planning
Visualisation and communication for a range of business stakeholders
Social network analysis
Business analytics development methodology
Design and agile thinking for business analytics projects
Ethical aspects, governance and security. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2000 Words 40 N Individual Y  Report 2500 Words 30 N Group Y  Presentation 10 mins 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 mins 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdul Babar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdul Babar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Bachelor of Information Systems (3687) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Business Analytics, Testamur Major (T130) Business and Management (BUSM)