Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7002 Ethics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102381 Coordinator Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window Description Since the beginning of philosophy, the question of how to live has taken on an indefinite variety of forms, as befits the variability of its subject matter. This includes the Platonic and Aristotelian conception of the good life, the Kantian categorical imperative, and social ethics. In recent Continental philosophy, this has encompassed the ethics of responsibility, the attempt to investigate the ethics of alterity, interest in the 'care-of-the-self', and the ethics of truth. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advanced and integrated knowledge of distinct varieties of Continental philosophical ethics in their contexts from a range of periods and places
Interpret complex philosophical texts
Write at a high level in a range of critical and philosophical idioms
Recognise and reflect on the significance of philosophical texts in imagining and interpreting the world
Construct coherent, evidence-based arguments.
Analyses of positions, development of arguments, and syntheses of a variety of different perspectives Subject Content - Philosophical ethics
- Topics in ethics such as responsibility, obligation and duty
- history of The Ethical concerns in The Philosophical tradition Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 3,000 words 45 N Individual Y  Literature Review 600 words 10 N Individual Y  Participation Ongoing 15 N Individual Y  Presentation 2,000 words (2 x 1000) 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)