Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7018 Integrated Practices 3: Emotions, Embodiment and Connection Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102372 Coordinator Melissa Maclean Opens in new window Description This subject presents and explores ways of working therapeutically with trauma. The interpersonal neurobiologists' focus of Mind/Body connection features in detail in this subject. Work with emotions, embodiment and the counsellor/client relationship as instruments of therapeutic change will be considered. Students will learn what it means to be a trauma-sensitive therapist and develop techniques and methods for working across the spectrum of trauma responses including dissociation. A range of psychotherapeutic models will feature such as somatic therapies, sensorimotor psychotherapy, emotionally focused therapy, and notions of 'felt sense'. Complementary modes of healing, such as mindfulness, breathwork and the practices of yoga and meditation will be considered for what they can offer to a trauma-informed approach to therapy. Students will develop skills in working with emotions and nonverbal communication, as well as recognizing how the 'spoken' incorporates the physical. School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 7009 AND
WELF 7013 AND
WELF 7010 AND
WELF 7006 AND
WELF 7014 Co-requisite(s) WELF 7002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1817 M Psychotherapy and Counselling. Assumed Knowledge Concurrent or previous study of any foundational subject in counselling. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Reflect constructively on the concepts of emotion, embodiment and connection and explore their implications for the practice of psychotherapy and counselling.
Critically analyse how findings from contemporary neuroscience can be integrated into trauma-informed therapy from an interpersonal perspective.
Evaluate concepts and use of emotions and somatic awareness across different approaches to psychotherapy, including sensorimotor psychotherapy, somatic response therapy, gestalt therapy, the PTSD trauma model, emotionally focused therapy, constructivist self-development theory (CSDT)
Recognise and demonstrate the use of emotions, 'felt sense' and somatic awareness within a therapeutic relationship, to assist clients to connect with themselves and others, particularly in relation to healing from trauma.
Effectively practice interpersonal counselling under supervision Subject Content 1. Examination of the mind\body relationship in response to trauma from the perspective of contemporary neuroscience.
2. Exploration of working with emotions and somatic responses in the context of the talking therapies.
3. Understanding the specific features of the therapeutic relationship in the context of working with trauma.
4. Consideration and experiential learning of trauma informed therapeutic models, such as sensorimotor psychotherapy, neurosequential therapy, and emotion focused therapy.
5. Understanding the context and application of complementary practices such as mindfulness, EMDR, yoga, meditation and breathwork in counselling and psychotherapy. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,750 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,750 word paper plus 20 min of video examples selected from 2x30 min role-plays completed = 2750 word equivalent total 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Melissa Maclean Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling (1817)