Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7007 Australian Migration Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200965 Coordinator Jason Donnelly Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an introduction to Australia's immigration system. It provides students with a broad overview of sources of Australian migration law, explores the role of government policy in migration law, and outlines the key components of Australia's migration program. The subject gives students a strong grounding in key terminology used in Australian migration law, and introducesto Australian visas. The subject explores the regulatory regime for losing a visa and addresses immigration offences. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 2803/2819 Graduate Diploma in Migration Law, 2810 Master of Laws (International Governance), 2826 Juris Doctor or 2824 Master of Laws. This program is available to international students who may obtain a Subclass 600 Tourist Visas (with visa condition 8201 - Max 3 Months Study), 485 Temporary Graduate Visa or other non-student visas with permission to study. Assumed Knowledge Prior study and English language proficiency as per the requirements of program 2803/2819 - Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the structure of Australia's immigration system, including sources of migration law and role of government policy;
Examine the nature of Australian visas and the implications for the loss of Australian visas;
Assess the importance of compliance with Australian migration laws and consider the regime with respect to immigration offences in Australia;
Effectively explain legal procedures and advice on Australian migration law in written form;
Apply basic research skills for relevant legal information on Australian migration law; Subject Content The Immigration System
Introduction to Visas
Losing a Visa
Immigration Offences
Public Interest Criteria Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2,000 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Michael Morgan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jason Donnelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Australian Migration Law Studies, minor (0346) Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law (2819) Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Laws (2824)