Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3015 Arabic 308: Language Past and Present Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100054 Coordinator Eva Melhem Opens in new window Description This subject aims to give students an understanding of the phonological, morpho-syntactic, semantic and pragmatic changes that have occurred to the Arabic language both spoken and written in the last century. Particular attention will be paid to the different dialects spoken in some of the Arab countries and their relation to Modern Standard Arabic. A special study will be made of the Australian Arabic used by migrant communities. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Assumed knowledge Arabic 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the phonological, morphosyntactic and lexical variations and changes undergone by the Arabic language in the last few decades.
Identify the differences across spoken varieties of Arabic.
Demonstrate understanding of the differences between classical Arabic and Modern Standard Arabic and the factors that lead to the evolution of the language.
Identify the problems of Arabic speakers in Australia and other non-Arabic speaking countries.
Demonstrate understanding of the status of Arabic in the world. Subject Content The origin, history and spread of the Arabic language in Arab and non-Arab countries.


Phonological, morphosyntactic and lexical variations and changes undergone by the Arabic language in the last century.

The main dialects of Arabic, their structural characteristics, their status and relevance and their relation to Modern Standard Arabic.
Language Policy & the extent and status of Arabic in Australia and in the world.
Code switching and language mixing among speakers of Arabic in Australia and their implications on language development in bilingual Arabic-speaking children.
Arabic language use in social media The origin, history and spread of the Arabic language in Arab and non-Arab countries. Phonological, morphosyntactic and lexical variations and changes undergone by the Arabic language in the last century. Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 10 minute oral presentation of the major assignment (10%). 2000-2500 word essay (30%). 40 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Participation 1 hour weekly 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Eva Melhem Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Eva Melhem Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)