Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 0010 Information Technology in Business (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700278 Coordinator Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window Description This subject introduces basic business concepts and how Information Systems can be used in Business. It also deals with Systems Analysis and Design, and Database Design and Development concepts. These concepts are introduced using a variety of case studies to provide authentic learning opportunities. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain business structures, support functions and operations.
Explain how Information Systems are used in Business.
Explain various phases of the System Development Life Cycle including activities and deliverables.
Identify and explain different Software Development Methodologies.
Demonstrate competency in using MS Access by: a. applying database modelling concepts, including design and normalisation of databases; b. creating and using forms; c. creating and using queries and reports. Subject Content 1. The nature of business, its role in society and types of business structures, support functions & operations.
2. Internal and external influences on Business
3. Role of Information Systems in Business.
4. Systems Analysis and Design fundamentals.
5. Introduction to Database Design and Development concepts using MS Access.
1. The nature of business, its role in society and types of business structures, support functions & operations.
2. Internal and external influences on Business.
3. Role of Information Systems in Business.
4. Systems Analysis and Design fundamentals.
5. Introduction to Database Design and Development concepts using MS Access. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 mins 10 N Individual N  Case Study 650 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 650 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 300 words plus tables and diagrams 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Information Systems (INFS) Other information Technology (INFO)