Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1064 Digital Identities Credit Points 10 Coordinator Erika Smith Opens in new window Description This subject examines identity in a digitalising society. It asks questions such as: who are we becoming with digital technologies? How are digital experiences shaped by long standing social inequalities? Students learn about identities as the flows of data across formalised systems of governance and commerce, and as the ways we make ourselves in interactions with others in social media spaces. Pressing issues are explored such as online harm, privacy, surveillance, and human rights. Students reflect upon personal and professional digital identities, and reimagine digital technologies and social media for new possibilities of identity, equity and justice. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 1009 Living Learning and Working on the Web Learning Outcomes Explain the key issues and implications of digitalising lives 
Discuss the relationship between identities and social inequalities in digital spaces 
Connect personal identities to responsible social media practices
Develop social research skills for researching digital society. 
Apply social theories of digital identities, social media, and digital systems Subject Content Digital identities – what does it mean to be human in a digitalising society? Who are you in digital times?
Social theories of identity, inequality and technology 
Researching digital society 
Relational selves, communities and social action – what are people doing online and why? 
Respectful, ethical and productive interactions in digital spaces
Equitable technologies and design justice
Digital rights – safety, privacy, surveillance, control, ownership, and consent
Networked identities of employability in a digital economy
Reconciling professional and personal identity dilemmas across digital platforms
Towards sustainable, fair and just digital futures Special Requirements Essential equipment Teaching spaces with computer access. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2 x 500 word blogs 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group Y  Report 1500 word 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Erika Smith Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Equitable Technologies, Minor (0312) Global Workplaces, Minor (0316) Social Research, Minor (0259) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)