Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3028 Innovation, Enterprise and Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200917 Coordinator Margaret Moussa Opens in new window Description Innovation, Enterprise and Society focuses on forces driving innovation, creativity and technical change at the levels of entrepreneurship, enterprise, economy and society. It also examines the effects of innovation at these various levels. This subject is a professional core subject in the Bachelor of Business. The subject takes a multi-disciplinary approach utilising critical thinking, debates, problem solving, policy analysis and case studies. Students will understand the professional, social, public policy and global networks and systems informing and surrounding innovation. Successful completion of the subject equips students to appreciate the entrepreneurial, political and social dimensions of innovation. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse innovation in different enterprise or social contexts.
Evaluate the practice and protocols of professional and social networks.
Identify opportunities and risks of innovation.
Evaluate innovation at a systems or macro level.
Analyse the public policy framework surrounding innovation. Subject Content 1. Innovation at the business and social enterprise level.
2. Financing new and growing business and social enterprises.
3. The economic and social drivers and effects of innovation.
? Oligopoly power, cost competition, differences in productivity and interactions between corporations and small competitive firms.
? The economic and social and cultural effects of long term technical development and technical change.
4. Innovation, public policy and the institutions of science.
? Innovation clusters and networks.
? Strategy and communication for innovation.
? Linking innovation, public policy and science.
5. Financial innovations in context.
? The causes and effects of innovation in financial products.
? Innovation at the macro systems level: changing and creating societies to address or avert global social and environmental crises. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 40 minutes maximum 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Margaret Moussa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Business and Management (BUSM) Design for Sustainability, Minor (0339) Eco-Socially Conscious Design and Manufacturing, Minor (0310) Economics, Testamur Major (T039) Enterprise Innovation, Major (0078) Equitable Technologies, Minor (0312) Property, Testamur Major (T047)