Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 2006 Experimental Design and Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100013 Coordinator Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window Description This subject is driven by the scientific method with a focus on experimental design and related data analysis. Research design and methodology and ethical issues, statistical concepts and techniques, computer analysis of data, and communicating research findings are all features of this subject, which build on the content in its prerequisite. School Psychology Discipline Statistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) For students NOT enrolled in programs 1630 Graduate Diploma in Psychological Studies 1796 Graduate Diploma in Psychology and 1837 Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour - BEHV 1016 Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. This pre-requisite will not apply to students enrolled in courses 1630 Graduate Diploma in Psychological Studies, 1796 Graduate Diploma in Psychology and 1837 Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Express understanding of the scientific method, and an appreciation of its role in developing psychological knowledge.
Demonstrate knowledge of experimental ethics and experimental research methodology and apply this methodology to experimental data.
Contrast basic experimental statistical techniques with emphasis on computerised analysis methods (SPSS).
Appraise the relationship between experimental design, collected data and the appropriate statistical technique. Subject Content Psychology as science. The role of research in psychology.
Making research and ethical decisions. Reviewing the literature, forming research questions and hypotheses, operationalising constructs, choosing variables.
Experimental and quasi-experimental designs.
Between and within-subjects experimental designs.
Reporting experimental results. The publication manual of the APA.
Statistical concepts: Variance, the normal distribution, levels of measurement, descriptive and inferential statistics.
Descriptive statistics: Frequencies, graphical presentation, measures of central tendency, measures of variability, percentiles, z-scores.
Inferential statistics: Populations and samples, sampling distributions, standard error, confidence intervals, significance, alpha, power.
Parametric versus non-parametric statistics, assumptions.
The t-tests, analysis of variance (ANOVA) and their non-parametric equivalents. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Quiz 20 questions 10 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Quiz 20 questions 10 N Individual Y  Poster 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Mathematics (MATH) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)