Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7024 Safety and Risk Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300677 Coordinator John Loxton Opens in new window Description This subject provides a critical insight into the theory and practice of managing safety and health at the workplace with a dual focus on risk management and safety management. Students have the opportunity to develop a safety systems approach concentrating on hazard identification, risk assessment and devising control measures incorporating safety management principles. Safety culture and its influence on Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) practice is also detailed. In addition, the subject addresses the legal underpinning of OHS requirements at the workplace. Labour market change and the role of government, unions and employer organisations are also examined. Global perspectives on OHS from various jurisdictions ranging from the USA, Hong Kong and China are also scrutinised. School Science Discipline Occupational Health and Safety Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5996 - Safety Management LGYA 6000 - Risk Assessment Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Recognition that Occupational Health and Safety procedures are legislatively required at the workplace and the ability to recognise the need to protect workers from harm at the workplace. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise the values, assumptions and models that underpin the development of risk assessment principles and of safety management processes
Identify and implement the principles of applied safety management premised on risk assessment and management
Critically analyse the systems approach to safety management responsibilities
Define and implement an integrated approach to safety systems
Discern the significance of safety culture to safety management
Advise on the integration of occupational health and safety programs into routine management systems
Produce and perform a risk assessment that identifies and apply the expected control measures Subject Content Module 1 Safety Management
Module 2 Risk Management
Module 3 Safe Systems of work
Module 4 OHS Legal and Regulatory context
Module 5 Safety Culture
Module 6 Safety Management Systems
Module 7 International approaches to risk and safety management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual   Presentation (4 per group with 5 minutes each) 20 minutes (4 per group with 5 minutes each) 20 N Group   Critical Review 2,000 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Health (Research Studies)/PhD (4681) Master of Science (3749) Public Health (PUBH)