Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7035 Frontiers of Branding Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201024 Coordinator Nicole Stegemann Opens in new window Description Technology has dramatically changed the way brands interact in the marketplace.  Marketers are increasingly faced with the challenge of meeting the needs of sophisticated consumers who have multiple brands to choose from in a very competitive environment.  This makes innovative branding strategies the key differentiating variable. This subject helps students understand the concept of branding and the utilization of brand assets by learning to strategically create, develop, innovate, position and protect the brand in an ever-changing environment in order to establish a sustainable competitive advantage. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7049 - Integrated Brand Management Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program or 1888 Master of Education (Leadership and Management Assumed Knowledge An understanding of marketing theory and relevant principles is assumed. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique the role of innovative brand management strategies in directing and sustaining competitive advantage within the context of technological evolution
Effectively co-produce alternative branding strategies and their application
Analyse how brand communities impact brand decisions
Critically evaluate the role of digitization on brand management/building.
Develop and apply appropriate metrics to measure brand performance. Subject Content 1. Building strategic brands
2. Different perspectives of alternative branding
3. Dynamics of brand communities
4. Brand digitization
5. Managing brand innovation
6. How radical re-branding strategies improve competitive advantage
7. Measuring brand performance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 2,000 word equivalency 40 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Proposal 2,500 words equivalency
 30 N Group Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Nicole Stegemann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Nicole Stegemann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Nicole Stegemann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Marketing, Major (0137) Master of Marketing (2817) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)