Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3004 Clinical Leadership in Nursing (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401217 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description This subject explores fundamental and advanced concepts and issues related to leadership in nursing to enable the advanced student to reflect on future leadership aspirations. The subject focuses on exploration of contemporary, emerging and innovative approaches to leadership that contribute to nursing standards, person-centred practice, evidence-based leadership, critical reflection and critical thinking in dynamic healthcare contexts. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 3020 Leadership in Nursing (Advanced) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced). Assumed Knowledge Professional communication, roles and responsibilities of the Registered Nurse, ethical and legal frameworks for practice, behavioural and social sciences, critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Learning Outcomes Evaluate contemporary, emerging and innovative clinical leadership approaches in nursing practice.
Differentiate between leadership and management in relation to clinical nursing practice.
Critically discuss the importance of leadership development and clinical leadership styles for nursing practice.
Appraise professional and organisational factors that facilitate or inhibit effective leadership in healthcare.
Critically evaluate effective leadership in provision of optimal person-centred care in clinical nursing practice.
Critically appraise leading and managing change and innovations in contemporary healthcare contexts.
Assess the value of self reflection, self assessment, critical thinking and feedback for effective clinical leadership in nursing contexts including the new graduate context.
Critically discuss effective building, motivating and leading of collaborative healthcare teams. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1500 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes
200 words 20 N Group Y  Reflection 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Participation Four - 3 hour presentations 
1 day Seminar S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Nursing (NURS)