Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7004 Planning and Development Control Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300708 Coordinator Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window Description This subject describes the general planning issues relevant to developments in rural and urban areas. The content covers the factors important in determining the allocation and use of land and resources together with the contributions of development to the built and natural environment. Topics include: urban and rural design issues; the impact of the 3 tiers of Government process on development control, and the legal, political and technical issues relevant to impact assessments. Particular attention will be paid to the role of the private sector in developing controls, self-regulation and appeal processes. Planning in both the micro and macro environments is examined in the context of sustainability, indigenous culture and heritage, private land conservation, community resources and its strategic effects on the recycling of existing land and non-renewable natural resources. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain the conceptual planning issues and relevant State legislation;
Compare the requirements for and explain the differences between the various layers of planning as they relate to federal, state and local governments;
Review the political, social and physical influences that shape towns and cities and reflect on the role of the community and the courts in influencing development outcomes;
Discuss the concepts of environmental capacity, sustainability and the preservation of the natural and built environment and identify constraints to development;
Develop various responses for planning urban and rural developments;
Analyse the links between development and environmental impacts and identify mechanisms to limit those impacts in planning for safe and cost effective developments. Subject Content 1. Conceptual planning issues and constraints;
2. Development control and its place in society;
3. Planning hierarchies and planning instruments (planning legislation);
4. Achieving planning objectives;
5. Exempt and complying development;
6. Sustainability and environmental impact;
7. Planning and the management of natural environments;
8. Planning and heritage conservation;
9. Rural development and coastal development;
10. Community consultation;
11. The role of the courts;
12. Planning and the future. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 250 words max for each question (500 total) 20 N Individual Y  Report 500 words max 20 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 word report 30 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,000 words  30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Graduate Certificate in Building Surveying (3790) Graduate Certificate in Bushfire Protection (3794) Graduate Diploma in Building Surveying (3789) Graduate Diploma in Bushfire Protection (3793) Master of Building Surveying (3703) Master of Bushfire Protection (3708) Master of Planning (1712) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)