Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3031 Discovering language: Everything you've ever wanted to know but never asked Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102625 Coordinator Mark Antoniou Opens in new window Description Why can any child learn any language? How come there are so many languages on this planet? What is the most difficult language? What happens to us if we speak more than one language? There are plenty more questions about language that we all have and this subject is all about asking and finding out about language in an engaging way. Students will learn how to ask questions about language and what research can tell us in answering them. The subject will equip students with the tools to investigate many aspects of language as a defining feature of humans. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1014 Equivalent Subjects LANG 3070 - Research Methods in Linguistics Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study including LANG 1014 - Introduction to Linguistics plus 20 credit points from subjects in the Linguistics major. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and analyse the parts of advanced research articles.
Demonstrate understanding of research methods used in the field of Language and Linguistics, including qualitative and quantitative approaches.
Identify, discuss and select appropriate research topics in the student's area of interest.
Demonstrate understanding of the basic steps to conducting research.
Use basic research methods for designing and analysing linguistic data.
Apply basic descriptive and inferential statistical concepts and techniques.
Write a research proposal. Subject Content Fundamental knowledge on how to read research articles: Identifying the basic parts of an article, reporting and critically assessing its content.
Identification of research-worthy and/or controversial topics.
Basic qualitative and quantitative tools to analyse linguistic data.
Step-by-step guidance on how to write a research proposal, including a summary, a research question, the motivation for the study through a literature review, methodology, analysis and predicted results. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography  1,000 words 30 N Individual   Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual   Quizzes 1,500 words in total 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022) Linguistics, Minor (0022)