Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3025 Designing for Circular Economy (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301293 Coordinator Sasha Alexander Opens in new window Description Students examine their local circular economy and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (UNSDG) principles as they apply to designing a sustainable future with Circularity for extended product life cycle, reuse, remanufacture, value up-cycling, production, and waste resource management. Students work on an industry-based, real-world, socio-technical, environmental challenge project in collaboration with community and industry partners. The project is based in the local Western Sydney region and students propose design solutions that are scalable and relatable in diverse contexts. Students will be able to apply their awareness of the sustainability requirements within the community and industry to their future career activities, by creating new value, and new green employment opportunities with a sustainability skills approach. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 2021 Sustainable Design Sustainable Futures Restrictions Students must have completed 100 credit points Assumed Knowledge Sufficient practical knowledge and skills in sustainable design and/or materials related life cycle is desirable. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the literature in relation Circular Economy approaches
Investigate contextual challenge to find promising problems 
Formulate a solution using Circular Economy (CE) principles that references select United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2030
Apply circular design principles into a professional practice technical workflow
Reflect upon own knowledge development in addressing solutions contributing innovation
Communicate in a clear, convincing and ethical manner concepts and designs to diverse stakeholders in a range of formats.
Report on the synthesis of CE principles in the solution development and final design. Subject Content 1. Circularity principles 
2. Authentic case studies from previous industry projects 
3. Working through a Circular design brief 
4. Introduce circularity into industry and integration to transdisciplinary professional practice
5. Developing a sustainable Circular design proposal Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1000 words,  3 x draft visual concepts,  Presentation (2 minutes) 30 N Individual Y  Report 1250 words,  1 x final contextual visual concept,  Presentation (3 minutes) 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sasha Alexander Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Computer Aided Design (Mechanical), Concentration (0124) Design Management and Entrepreneurship, Major (0081) Design for Sustainability, Minor (0339) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Responsible Design and Sustainability, Minor (0087)