Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2025 Japanese 202 Speaking and Listening Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102029 Coordinator Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window Description This subject is normally undertaken concurrently with, or after, Japanese 201. It is designed to develop and expand speaking and listening skills based on the grammatical knowledge developed in Japanese 201. The range of communicative transactions is increased so that more sophisticated exchanges are possible, for instance when using polite and plain (i.e. casual) styles of speech, describing one's conjecture, stating an opinion, asking for explanation, etc. Cultural and social understanding of Japanese society is also fostered. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Japanese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School).  Note: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Japanese are encouraged enrol in Japanese 201 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2028 - Language Communication Skills 2A Japanese Assumed Knowledge Japanese 102 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes Apply basic strategies in spoken communication in such areas as using formal and casual styles of speech, describing one's conjecture, stating an opinion, confirming the listener's agreement, indicating specific times and spaces, and explaining or asking for an explanation;
Apply basic grammatical structures and vocabulary to carry out the exchanges stated above.
Present a speech in Japanese on various topics related to Japan, including its culture and society, students' experience and others.
Discuss various topics in a group;
Identify important characteristics of Japanese culture and contemporary Japanese society. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 6 hours 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 100 - 500 words and 5 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Practical 30 minutes 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)