Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1028 The Sound of Language Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102042 Coordinator Stacey Sherwood Opens in new window Description The richness of information conveyed through spoken language owes its form to the combination and recombination of a small number of sounds. In this subject, students will learn the sounds of the world's languages (phonetics) and the ways in which they are combined to build words (phonology). Examples will be drawn from English, Australian Aboriginal languages, and a diverse range of languages spoken around the world. The subject includes an overview of Australian English phonetics and phonology. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Incompatible Subjects LANG 2045 - The Sound of Language Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use the International Phonetic Alphabet to represent language sounds
Analyse sound patterns in familiar and unfamiliar languages
Read and summarize primary literature in the field of phonology
Apply appropriate methods to conduct a small research project on phonological aspects of language.
Use the International Phonetic Alphabet to represent language sounds.
Analyse sound patterns in familiar and unfamiliar languages, especially in Australian English.
Read and summarize primary literature in the field of phonology.
Apply appropriate methods to conduct a small research project on phonological aspects of language. Subject Content . The fundamentals of articulatory phonetics including how to produce and transcribe the sounds of the world's languages
. A broad sampling of sound patterns in the worlds languages including examples from English and Aboriginal languages of Australia
. Theoretical framework and analytical tools for describing sound patterns in language
The fundamentals of articulatory phonetics including how to produce and transcribe the sounds of the world's languages.
A broad sampling of sound patterns in the worlds languages emphasising examples from Australian English and Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages.
Theoretical framework and analytical tools for describing sound patterns in language. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 45 minutes each 40 N Individual N  Case Study approx 1,000 words each 20 N Individual N  Report 2,500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Stacey Sherwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Stacey Sherwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Languages and Linguistics (1810) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022) Linguistics, Minor (0022)