Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3001 Being a Professional Nurse (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401027 Coordinator Sue Willis Opens in new window Description This subject explores the process of transition from student to professional practitioner. Students undertaking the BN Advanced course will gain a critical understanding of the congruence between the provision of health care and professional regulatory frameworks. The role of the graduate nurse will be explored through a detailed examination of case studies that apply relevant nursing theory to professional practice. This subject will build capacity in students to meet their professional responsibilities as new graduate practitioners in nursing. Students will also have the opportunity to discuss career planning and set priorities for ongoing professional development. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 3033 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care principles; professional communication; roles and responsibilities of the Registered Nurse; ethical and legal frameworks for practice, critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Learning Outcomes Discuss the theoretical perspectives that inform transition to graduate practice.
Apply the relevant professional regulatory frameworks in relation to competent professional practice.
Apply lifelong learning approaches to continuing professional development.
Synthesise relevant information from diverse sources to maintain evidence of professional currency.
Critically evaluate readiness for practice through self-review, critical self-reflection, group discussion and peer feedback.
Critically evaluate personal goals for career development in the health care system and identify potential professional mentoring opportunities.
Critically reflect within a professional portfolio in relation to regulatory requirements.
Evaluate processes relevant to WH&S issues to provide safe, quality care within the scope of practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 750 words 25 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)