Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2014 Recreational Therapy Assessment and Documentation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401399 Coordinator Arianne Reis Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the theoretical and practical aspects associated with the planning, implementation and management of assessments and evaluation in recreational therapy services, including all documentation needs of the profession. Students will learn all components of assessments as they are connected to a comprehensive program plan and will develop their recreational therapy assessment and evaluation skills.
Students will be required to complete an 80-hour industry-based placement as part of the requirements for this subject. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 1007 Equivalent Subjects REHA 3036 Workplace Learning 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in B Health Science in the Recreational Therapy testamur major. This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of Bachelor of Health Science-Therapeutic Recreation program. It is profession-specific, preparing students to practice as a recreation therapist and not relevant or appropriate as an elective for non-recreational therapy students. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Conduct an assessment and record findings in a format appropriate for entry into health records
Evaluate and judiciously select evidence-based recreational therapy assessment instruments to determine physical, cognitive, emotional, and social functioning of clients
Conduct and interpret individual assessments based on appropriate models of practice and in line with appropriate ethical standards as espoused by the profession
Collect and analyse data to monitor individual and program progress of goals
Utilise individualized progress notes to record client regression/stabilization or progression toward treatment goals and discharge/referral summaries to record a summary of services and evaluate the effectiveness of treatment received Subject Content Conduct the assessment process 
Apply assessment data to care plan 
Document client progress 
Document program and client incidents 
Maintain department documentation Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes  20 N Individual N  Case Study 1,000 words  30 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words  50 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 80 hrs (2 weeks) field placement S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)