Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3044 Shaping the Future of Recreational Therapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401404 Coordinator Joanne Rodrigues Opens in new window Description Recreation therapists are frequently tasked with solving very complex problems in their practice. This subject uses project-based learning to provide students with the opportunity to work collaboratively to solve an industry-driven problem, using systematic and evidence-based techniques to do so. Students will be challenged to think broadly to take into account the interrelationships among a full range of causal factors underlying the problem at hand, and will be required to use more collaborative and innovative approaches to solve industry challenges. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2014 AND
REHA 2015 Restrictions This is a capstone subject of study for the Recreational Therapy Testamur major. Therefore, students must have completed 160 credit points of the program prior to enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply problem-solving skills to an actual health challenge
Appraise literature and information sources that are related to an identified problem
Employ appropriate methods and evaluation processes to create a solution-based proposal
Articulate complex recreation therapy approaches and solutions to different audiences
Demonstrate innovative thinking in creating a solution to a recreation therapy challenge Subject Content 1. Defining goals, purpose and scope of health policy in relation to Recreation Therapy
2. Ideological approaches to health including health care provision
3. Structural interest groups, pressure groups and political processes
4. The role of Advocacy in creating change to public policy for Recreation Therapy
5. Community participation/active Citizenship and empowerment in health Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 wordsWritten policy brief 800 words. Slideshow presentation video recording 15 minutes. 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 500 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Joanne Rodrigues Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)