Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4011 Occupational Therapy Practice 4B Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401127 Coordinator Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window Description This subject is the second of two final clinical placement subjects in the Year 4 of the program. This subject aims to facilitate the transition from student to occupational therapy practitioner by allowing students to consolidate academic knowledge and practice skills in preparation for becoming a competent beginning practitioner. Students will be expected to actively participate in assessment, analysis, goal setting, intervention and evaluation under the supervision of an occupational therapist.  Students will complete practice hours in accordance with World Federation of Occupational Therapy accreditation guidelines. This subject also emphasises career planning and preparation for entering the professional world as an occupational therapist. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3024 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4010 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7011 - Occupational Therapy Clinical Practice 4 Restrictions Students must be enrolled 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy. This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Assumed Knowledge Completion of all core subjects is assumed knowledge. Learning Outcomes Manage case loads in preparation for independent practice.
Demonstrate professional behaviours and attitudes in practice settings.
Communicate effectively with clients, team members, relevant community groups and industry partners.
Utilise a range of assessments to set long and short term goals.
Implement and evaluate occupational therapy interventions in the practice setting.
Prepare documents in a professional format related to practice.
Practice self-directed learning strategies through the use of a learning contract.
Reflect on their practice experience using a structured format.
Develop career planning strategies to facilitate the transition into the professional workforce. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 8 week full time or equivalent professional practice placement 50 Y Individual Y  Reflection 3,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)