Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2012 Exercise Physiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401142 Coordinator Simon Green Opens in new window Description This subject covers the essential physiology that helps us understand how we control our exercise behaviour. In lectures there is a focus on physiological control, with emphasis on neuromuscular, cardiovascular, respiratory and thermoregulatory responses during exercise, as well as adaptation of these responses in response to ageing, disease and exercise training. In laboratory classes, there is a focus on the acquisition and interpretation of physiological responses during exercise. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Biology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1009 AND
NATS 1010 AND
SPRT 1001 AND
NATS 1022 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 2037 - Sport and Exercise Phyiology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define core concepts in neuromuscular, cardiovascular, respiratory and thermoregulatory physiology. 
Describe the scope of physiological responses during exercise using correct values and units of measurement.
Identify effects of biological sex, aging and training on physiological responses during exercise.
Differentiate between physiological control and regulation during exercise.
Calculate, analyse, interpret and illustrate physiological data recorded during laboratory classes.
Contrast and contextualise recorded data with data reported in published scientific literature. Subject Content 1. Overview of the essential physiology of movement and exercise, including metabolism (covered in Bioenergetics).
2. Neuromuscular physiology and exercise.
3. Cardiovascular physiology and exercise.
4. Respiratory physiology and exercise.
5. Thermoregulation and exercise.
6. Laboratory classes focused on ergometry and the recording, analysis and interpretation of neuromuscular, cardiovascular, respiratory and thermal responses during rest and exercise. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 300 words plus a maximum of four tables and figures 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 42 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 40 minutes 28 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Simon Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science) (4658) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Exercise Science, Minor (0279) Other Health (HLTH) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)