Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7001 Advanced Research Skills Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 200745 Coordinator Terry Sloan Opens in new window Description Advanced Research Skills is designed for students who are undertaking Doctoral studies. This subject aims to equip participants with sound knowledge of research methods in business, their criteria for use, their basis of selection, their underlying assumptions and limitations, and their computational implications and processes. The subject will introduce candidates to different methodologies in management research and will also provide in-depth study of particular methods that candidates are expected to use in their thesis, e.g. case studies, surveys, questionnaire design, conducting interviews and focus groups as well as qualitative and quantitative data analysis. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 7075 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Choose the appropriate methodology to investigate a research problem.
Develop data collection instruments that yield needed information
Set up data collection processes that yield acceptable participation and response rates.
Select appropriate analytical and statistical tools.
Interpret data analyses. Subject Content Scientific approach and method
Quantitative and qualitative research process
Reasoning with statistics
Survey questionnaire analysis
Experimental design
Developing and Analysis of Questionnaire data
Populations
Missing values
Distributions and Assumptions
Sampling procedures
Multiple comparisons
Grounded theory and Social Science fieldwork
Phenomenology
Post modernism
Feminist studies
Ethnography
Content and textual analysis
Triangulation
Multi method data collection
Multi method analysis Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Certificate in Business Studies (exit only) (2751) Graduate Diploma in Business Studies (exit only) (2750) Master of Business Research Studies (exit only) (2749)