Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7070 Masters Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200280 Coordinator Felicitas Evangelista Opens in new window Description Masters Project is an integrated capstone subject that brings together the skills and understanding marketing students have developed during their course of study. The subject encourages students to demonstrate their ability to solve problems in relation to current and future issues within a marketing context in contemporary business. The subject allows students to critically evaluate issues relevant to their topic and assess effective solutions. The topics are determined by discussions between the individual student, the subject coordinator and the student's chosen supervisor. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 8752 - Applied Marketing Planning
LGYA 8767 - Masters Project in International Business
LGYA 4472 - Business Project (International Marketing) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program or 1850 Master of Education (Leadership and Management). Students enrolled in program 2698 Master of Business (Marketing) must have successfully completed 40 credit points in the program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of applied knowledge within the field of marketing;
Assess specific issues in-depth, and to critically evaluate the body of knowledge relevant to their marketing topic;
Apply knowledge and skills to produce a report with recommendations for improved professional marketing practice in a specific industry context. Subject Content - analyse and interpret data gathered from The Marketing environment, A client organisation, and other external sources in order to identify and refine A Marketing issue.
- apply Marketing strategies based on The results of analysis of data considering company objectives and resources as well as Trends in The Marketing environment.
- Contrast The impact of The dynamic and complex nature of marketplaces and Marketing strategies in uncertain environments. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3,000 words 70 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Felicitas Evangelista Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Tendai Chikweche Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Business Analytics (2816) Master of Marketing (2817)