Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1030 Resource Sustainability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300810 Coordinator Andy Broderick Opens in new window Description Resource sustainability deals with the local, national, and global sustainability issues concerning human interactions with the environment. The subject uses current resource issues and scientific concepts to provide the practical and theoretical information needed for students to think critically about environmental issues and to contribute to the sustainable management of natural and built environments. Students will also learn how science and society interact in the management of resources. Using the concept of ecologically sustainable development as a foundation, students will use critical thinking skills to research a resource issue of their choice at the local, national and/or international level.  Students will communicate their research using new mediaexploring the issue and make recommendations for improving sustainability. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1029 - Resource Sustainability BIOS 1031 - Resource Sustainability (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge Basic biological science and an understanding of referencing. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate critical thinking skills to make informed decisions about environmental issues and resource sustainability at the global, national, local, and personal levels.
Describe the scientific principles underlying sustainability, the limits of science in natural resource management, and the concept of ecologically sustainable development.
Explain and reflect on how human activities impact on sustainability of environments and resources.
Apply skills in academic reading, accessing library resources and field research to understand current issues in resource sustainability.
Analyse in-depth a resource issue at a range of scales and recommend solutions to sustainability problems.
Use spatial information in sustainable resource management.
Communicate a sustainable resource issue through new media. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Written research report 1250 words 15 N Individual   Workshop group presentations 5 minutes each workshop and peer assessed 15 N Group   Quizzes 30 minutes each 30 N Individual   New Media presentation 5-7 minutes 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Environment and Sustainability, Major (0169)