Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7032 Mental Health for Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400773 Coordinator Gillian Murphy Opens in new window Description Evolving diversity and changes within societies mean that what are understood as adaptive and maladaptive lifestyles, behaviours and attitudes towards mental illness and traditional healing approaches will vary greatly. This subject presents an outline of the themes and topics central to discussions of mental health and illness within a community. It examines the influences of stereotype and stigma, environment, culture, adaptive ability and support systems for psychological well-being while considering approaches which focus on and promote resilience, attachment, a sense of belonging and empowerment. Contemporary mental health and illness issues relating to selected vulnerable groups will be explored. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mental Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled 4673 Master of Mental Health Nursing (Nurse Practitioner), 4654 Graduate Diploma in Nursing (Mental Health), 4719 Master of Mental Health Nursing, 4720 Graduate Diploma in Mental Health Nursing  or 4735 Master of Nursing (Professional Studies). Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have knowledge and understanding of mental health / mental health concerns  and be able to relate it to clinical nursing practice for individuals and their families. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise the complexity of the mental health-mental illness continuum
Critically analyse the influences of environment, culture, support systems and adaptive ability on community mental health issues
Investigate a range of approaches and their application in mental health promotion
Synthesise the risk factors for maintaining psychological well-being in vulnerable populations
Critically analyse the extent to which selected issues related to mental health status impact across the lifespan
Design and communicate nursing interventions based on the consumer’s needs and experiences Subject Content 1. Conceptual overview of mental health and mental illness
- difficulties with definitions
- myths and misconceptions
2. Community perspectives on mental health
- influences of environment, culture, adaptive ability, support systems
- community responses, e.g. stigma, discrimination, affirmative action
3. Approaches to promoting resilience, attachment, empowerment and a sense of belonging for consumers, carers and groups
4. Mental health perspectives in vulnerable groups, e.g. children and adolescents, aged, immigrants
Selected issues related to maintaining psychological well-being, e.g. violence and bullying, substance misuse/abuse, depression and suicide Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Case Study Part A: 1000 words : 30%
Part B: 10 minutes : 20% 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tracy Stanbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tracy Stanbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Nursing (Professional Studies) (exit only) (4736) Master of Nursing (Professional Studies) (4735) Nursing (NURS)