Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1018 Mathematics for Engineers 1 (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700019 Coordinator Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window Description The content of this subject covers a number of topics that underpin the later-stage engineering mathematics subjects.  The subject matter includes:  differential and integral calculus of a single variable, complex numbers, aspects of matrix algebra, vectors and some elementary statistics and probability theory. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1023 Equivalent Subjects MATH 1017 - Mathematics for Engineers 1 (WSTC Assoc Deg) Incompatible Subjects MATH 1014 - Mathematics 1A MATH 1015 - Mathematics 1B MATH 1011 - Fundamentals of Mathematics Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Solve problems involving matrices and determinants
Define j2 and operate with complex numbers
Perform operations on vectors, both in 2-D and 3-D
Find solutions to problems involving logarithmic, exponential, inverse trigonometric, hyperbolic and inverse hyperbolic functions
Apply correctly the techniques of both differential and integral calculus to solve problems that may involve transcendental functions
Define a random variable and find its probability distribution and calculate probabilities based on the Binomial distribution, the Poisson distribution and the Normal distribution
Appreciate the relevance of mathematics in an engineering context
Communicate mathematical ideas using common conventions Subject Content 1. Matrix Algebra: Determinants; matrices; solution of simultaneous equations using matrices and determinants; Gaussian elimination; eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
2. Complex Numbers: Basic operations; polar coordinates; Euler?fs formula; powers and roots of complex numbers.
3. Vectors: definition; basic operations; dot product; cross product; angle between two vectors; equations of lines and planes.
4. Functions and Inverse Functions: Revision - inverse functions, logs, exponentials; trig and inverse trig functions; hyperbolic and inverse hyperbolic functions.
5. Differential Calculus: Revision- limits; continuity; definition of the first derivative, differentiation rules; implicit differentiation including inverse trig functions and inverse hyperbolic functions.
6. Applications of Differential Calculus: L?fHopital?fs Rule; properties of curves; differentials; related rates.
7. Integration: Indefinite/defin Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 40 minutes 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 20 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Engineering (7034) Diploma in Engineering Extended (7162) Diploma in Engineering Fast Track (7035) Diploma in Engineering/Bachelor of Engineering Studies (6033) Mathematics (MATH)