Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7038 Working Mathematically 1: Exploring Connections Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102603 Coordinator Jana Kovtun Opens in new window Description This subject develops students’ critical understandings of how numeracy and mathematical ideas shape young children’s lives during their first eight years. Students will develop their ability to provide rich learning experiences that enhance and assess the development of children’s numeracy and foundational mathematical concepts. The subject will foster positive dispositions towards teaching and applying mathematics and numeracy in educational settings for children using the Early Years Learning Framework for Australia, the Australian Curriculum and the NSW Mathematics K-10 Syllabus curriculum documents. It will also consider the literacy demands of Mathematics. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1111 - Mathematics Science Technology 0-8 TEAC 7060 - Investigating with Mathematics Science and Technology Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Reflect on the role of the teacher, family and community in extending children’s learning and positive disposition towards mathematics and numeracy.  
Apply key terminology and rich mathematical vocabulary to explain and represent mathematical ideas and to support numeracy development.
Analyse the continuity of learning of key mathematical processes of understanding, fluency, problem-solving and reasoning in the early years. 
Use the Early Years Learning Framework for Australia, Australian Curriculum (F-Year 2) and the NSW Mathematics K-10 (focus on K-2) syllabus documents to plan, monitor and evaluate developing mathematical knowledge, skills and understandings.
Use formative and summative assessment procedures to assess children’s mathematical and numeracy using appropriate curriculum documents to set appropriate teaching intentions and learning outcomes for children.
Create play and integrated learning experiences that enhance investigation and exploration of working mathematically.
Design a range of effective, scaffolded teaching strategies to promote deep mathematical thinking and problem-solving.
Choose appropriate resources, concrete manipulatives, games, technologies, literature, and everyday objects to extend children’s confidence to engage in mathematical thinking. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2500 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 2500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jana Kovtun Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jana Kovtun Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)