Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1025 Usable Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102716 Coordinator John Cass Opens in new window Description This subject examines the psychological principles underlying users' experience of design. After introducing fundamental principles of human perception and cognition, we will explore the way these principles shape the experience of users when interacting with a designed product. The subject will also introduce the experimental approaches used to study perceptual and cognitive processes, focussing on critical evaluation of design principles and highlighting techniques relevant to user experience evaluation. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the principles of human visual perception and cognition relevant to user experience design.
Explain key experimental techniques used in perceptual and cognitive science.
Identify perceptual and cognitive principles relevant to the design of existing websites and applications.
Evaluate design utility based on perceptual and cognitive principles underlying user experience.
Write a design report, using APA style and formatting. Subject Content Introduction:  This topic will introduce the design principles used in a range of design contexts. It will focus on ‘screen based’ design and touch on other areas of design.
Basic Visual Perceptual Principles: introduction to the fundamental principles governing our visual experiences. This topic will explore the link between anatomy, physiology and perceptual experience in relation to visual acuity, colour perception, depth perception and object recognition.
Higher Order Perceptual Principles: introduction to the principles governing the integration of basic sensory elements into complex perceptual experiences. This will include exploration of the Gestalt grouping rules, contextual inference and visual heuristics.
Basic Cognitive Principles: introduction to areas of cognitive psychology relevant to user experience design including reading, attention, and memory.
Higher order cognitive principles: introduction to cognitive biases and heuristics shaping user experiences. This topic will include exploration of aspects of learning, problem solving and decision making. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 5 x 100 words = 500 words in total 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact John Cass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Humanising Data, Minor (0335) Other information Technology (INFO) User Experience, Major (0273) User Experience, Testamur Major (T154)