Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7064 Clinical Teaching and Workplace Learning for Competent Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401437 Coordinator Cris Algoso Opens in new window Description This subject prepares educators and clinicians for their role in clinical education by examining educational theory and its relevance and application to teaching and learning in the clinical workplace. Students will identify and operationalise key priorities for learning and teaching in their organisation and address these by providing appropriate and relevant teaching and learning experiences that build the capacity of colleagues (this can also be extended to include patient and family education). The subject also explores the principles and challenges that are associated with the assessment of competence and the strategies that can be utilised to further develop the knowledge and skills of the clinical educator in the professional practice environment. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7676 - Clinical Teaching and Professional Development NURS 7014 - Clinical Teaching and Professional Development Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critique the role of clinical teaching and workplace learning and the role that this has for building workforce capacity.
2. Apply educational theory to construct meaningful clinical workplace learning experiences.
3. Critically analyse the impact of clinical teaching and learning on patient outcomes.
4. Compare and contrast the principles and challenges associated with competency assessment in nursing and midwifery.
5.Appraise the principles of performance development and apply when creating a performance development plan.
6. Critically reflect on and evaluate their own performance as an assessor during and after conducting competency assessments. Subject Content Building workforce capacity and the impact of this for better patient outcomes
Teaching in the clinical setting/ opportunities for learning
Education and workplace learning theories (psychological, sociological and postmodern)
Workplaces as learning environments /learning through the demands of practice
Interprofessional education: Learning about, from and with others
The clinical learning curriculum
Patient and family/carer education
The roles of the clinical educator, legislative frameworks and standards/ scope of practice
Principles of competency assessment and attainment
Performance development strategies and evaluation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15-minute video recording 45 N Individual N  Peer Review 750 words 15 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Clinical Teaching, Testamur Major (T014) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (4723) Nursing (NURS)