Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3019 Professional Experience (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300900 Coordinator Rhys Tague Opens in new window Description Professional Experience (Advanced) is a final year ’capstone’ work-placement subject. This advanced subject provides the opportunity for students to gain hands-on experience in software systems requirements definition, analysis, design, implementation and project management, in an external organisation under the supervision of industry experts. During the work placement students work in a real project applying the theories and technical skills learned in previous subjects in an industry setting. Students may propose a work-placement of their choice within an external organisation. All placement proposals will be assessed for suitability in meeting the set subject outcomes and approval must be granted prior to commencement. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students in the Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) and associated double degrees with BICT (Adv) are required to complete the following subjects
INFS 2002 Database Design and Development (Advanced) AND
COMP 3028 Software Construction AND
INFO 3019 Project Management

Students in the Bachelor of Information Systems (Advanced) and associated double degrees with BIS (Adv) are required to complete the following subjects
INFS 3023 Advanced Systems Development Methodologies AND
INFS 3024 Enterprise Architecture and Design thinking Incompatible Subjects INFO 3005 IT Support Practicum Restrictions This subject is not an open elective. Students must be enrolled in programs: 2801 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws
3684 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced)
3688 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced
3745 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business
2842 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) Students not enrolled in these programs, must have a GPA of 5.0, must be enrolled in an undergraduate computer program and be chosen as a suitable candidate for work placement by the pre-enrolment selection process. Assumed Knowledge Software development methodologies; Software analysis and design modelling tools and techniques; Programming languages; Implementing databases management systems; Software construction and testing; System documentation; Project Management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Contribute to software development/implementation projects in the industry covering all phases of SDLC.
Participate in creating professional level documentation as needed in a project.
Relate and apply academic theory to project activities and the general work environment.
Discover, investigate and self-learn technologies needed for the completion of project activities.
Follow work practices and explain aspects related to professional code of conduct in the ICT profession.
Identify additional work-related skills acquired through work placement.
Reflect upon and critically evaluate their learning from the work placement.
Communicate orally and in writing with team members, supervisors, mentors and present outcomes to a professional panel and stakeholders. Subject Content Participate in planning and monitoring in project activities.
Contribute to preparing system documentation.
Work collaboratively with a group of professionals in achieving defined project goals.
Manage issues that may arise when working in a team environment.
Follow guidance and suggestions given by industry supervisors and fellow team members of the work placement organisation and academic supervisors within university.
Be self-directed and work independently managing one's self and time, to complete the activities assigned on time, under pressure and various other constraints present in a work environment.
Effectively communicate   orally   and   in   writing   with   team   members, supervisors, mentors and present outcomes to a professional panel and stakeholders.
Learn from the experts and adapt to the needs of the work environment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview approximately 2,000 words total 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio approximately 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation Presentation 1= 15 minutes, Presentation 2= 20 minutes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Computer Science (COMP)