Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1013 Engineering Physics (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700151 Coordinator Ben Kelley Opens in new window Description This subject serves as an introduction to the fundamentals of engineering physics with appropriate applications in a wide range of engineering and industrial design systems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 7034 Diploma in Engineering 7066 Diploma in Engineering Fast Track or 6033 Diploma in EngineeringBachelor of Engineering Studies must pass PHYS 0003 Foundation Physics 2 before enrolling in this unit Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1028 - Physics and Materials ENGR 1011 - Engineering Physics ENGR 1035 - Physics and Materials (UWSC) LGYB 0486 - Physics and Materials (UWSC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1012 - Engineering Physics (WSTC Assoc Deg) Assumed Knowledge HSC physics and HSC mathematics (not General Mathematics). Learning Outcomes Identify and apply System Internationale (SI) units in the areas covered in this unit.
Analyse and solve problems by applying the laws and principles of engineering physics in the following areas covered by the subject ? units and vectors, linear and circular motion, photons, electrons and atoms, force systems and equilibrium, work and energy applications, dynamics of rotational motion, fluid dynamics, heat and thermodynamics, periodic motion and wave phenomena, electricity and magnetism.
Plan, conduct and document experiments performed in the laboratory on ? measurements and uncertainties, acceleration due to gravity, coefficients of friction, standing waves, spectral line analysis.
Interpret the results of experiments against the theory including the estimation of experimental uncertainties. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours each 10 N Group N  Practical Exam 1 hour 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ben Kelley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ben Kelley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Engineering (7034) Diploma in Engineering Extended (7162) Diploma in Engineering Fast Track (7035) Diploma in Engineering/Bachelor of Engineering Studies (6033) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)