Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2039 The Accommodation Industry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200993 Coordinator Bruce Cameron Opens in new window Description The Accommodation Industry is concerned with developing skills for managing people, operations and business in hotels and hospitality companies. It focuses on the business operations and management issues to be found in successful lodging enterprises. The subject incorporates the application of key aspects of marketing, service management, financial management, revenue management and business development within a hospitality context. It develops effective problem solving and critical thinking skills necessary to meet the service industry's ever-changing needs. Students can expect to find employment in a range of domestic and international accommodation management facilities such as hotels, resort groups, cruise ships and the accommodation sector. School Business Discipline Hospitality Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2032 - Managing the Accomodation Experience
LGYA 4391 - Managing the Accomodation Experience Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of the core concepts of hospitality. Learning Outcomes Assess components of the accommodation industry;
Analyse the management functions in marketing, finance, operations, people and general management;
Interpret financial aspects of hotel management, including revenue management;
Evaluate sustainable accommodation aspects;
Analyse current issues in accommodation management. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 3000 words 30 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)