Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2025 English Language Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102439 Coordinator Milena Ilisevic Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will develop a thorough understanding of the structure of English and the use of English across contexts. Students will study the workings of the English language, including its sounds, grammar, syntax and textual forms, through the analysis of diverse texts. The skills developed through the analysis of real-world texts throughout the subject will prepare students for effective participation in a range of personal and professional contexts, enhancing their capacity for study and for employment. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline English as a Second Language Teaching Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the grammatical structures of English at the word, phrase, clause and sentence level.
Apply grammatical analyses to real world contexts.
Explain how context impacts the use of English.
Prepare and write a report on the analysis of extended textual samples.
Critically consider the role language plays in effective communication. Subject Content English sounds, words and grammar.
The analysis of phrases, clauses, sentences and texts.
Semantics and pragmatics.
Cohesion and coherence.
Texts and genres in context. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 40 minutes each 60 N Individual Y  Short Answer 100 words each 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Milena Ilisevic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) International English, Major (0018) International English, Minor (0018) Teacher Education (TEAC)