Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1033 Cultural Crossroads: Understanding the World Through Texts (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description Reading literary texts is crucial to our ways of understanding the world and ourselves. This subject involves the close reading of literary texts to explore concepts about meaning-making, including the use of language, narrative form, and the issues of genre. In this subject you will acquire reading resilience and the ability to identify specific literary techniques. You will read a range of Australian texts and analyse how meanings in those texts are shaped by diverse cultural and international contexts. The subject will also guide you in the development of written communication skills in academic English, by teaching you how to identify and make critical arguments. Ultimately, you will learn about the different ways in which literary forms are constructed and the ways in which they represent reality. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Language and Literature, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 1004 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Analyse literary texts to identify and interpret a range of key literary techniques.
Apply techniques in academic and critical writing and respond to feedback to improve writing skills.
Summarise and evaluate critical arguments.
Demonstrate an ability work effectively with other students on team tasks.
Demonstrate an ability to give effective presentations supported by digital presentation tools.
Discuss ways in which different cultural and international contexts influence the reading and writing of Australian literary texts. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Multiple choice and short answer responses (150 word each) 20 N Group/Individual N  Short Answer 500 words 20 N Group N  Critical Review 1200 words 35 N Individual N  Poster 1000 word equivalent 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Language and Literature (LANG)