Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1069 Human Rights and Community Action (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description In this subject, students engage with the concepts and philosophy of human rights and explore how these ideas influence the Australian experience within legal, governmental and social service institutions. Students will be challenged to consider if vulnerable groups have their human rights promoted or undermined by current practice and identify a human rights issue to address through a community action plan. Students will gain subject relevant skills linking theory to practice in the process of critical reflection and exercising statistical literacy. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify the key philosophical and historical milestones in the development of contemporary international and Australian human rights instruments.
Describe international human rights instruments and their relevance to the social conditions of vulnerable persons and groups.
Demonstrate an understanding of how human rights concepts and themes influence Australian legislation, policy, and civil society.
Examine how key institutions promote or undermine access to justice and equity for vulnerable groups in Australia.
Develop a community action plan in response to an identified human rights issue. Subject Content Human rights – an introduction to the philosophy and history of human rights, including current international and Australian instruments
Challenges to contemporary practice
Sustainable development in vulnerable communities: social policy, institutional responses and community initiative development
Sustainable communities: Social capital and community engagement
Professional communication for community engagement Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 250 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words (~500 word individual contribution) 30 N Group N  Report 400 words 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn Block 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)