Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1011 Engineering Physics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300963 Coordinator Zhong Tao Opens in new window Description This subject serves as an introduction to the fundamentals of engineering physics with appropriate applications in a wide range of engineering and industrial design systems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1028 - Physics and Materials ENGR 1035 - Physics and Materials (UWSC) LGYB 0486 - Physics and Materials (UWSC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1013 - Engineering Physics (WSTC) ENGR 1012 - Engineering Physics (WSTC AssocD) Assumed Knowledge HSC physics and HSC mathematics (not General Mathematics). Learning Outcomes Identify and apply System Internationale (SI) units in the areas covered in this unit
Analyse and solve problems by applying the laws and principles of engineering physics in the following areas covered by the subject: - Units, and Vectors, Linear, and circular motion, Photons, electrons, and atoms, Force systems, and equilibrium, Work, and energy applications, Dynamics of rotational motion, Fluid dynamics, Heat, and thermodynamics, Periodic motion, and wave phenomena, Electricity, and magnetism.
Plan, conduct and document experiments performed in the laboratory on - Measurements & uncertainties, - Acceleration due to gravity, - Coefficients of friction, - Standing waves, - Spectral line analysis.
Interpret the results of experiments against the theory including the estimation of experimental uncertainties. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Complete during 2 hour practical session 10 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours 13 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 40 minutes 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual N  Self-Assessment Complete Modules 2 through to 8. 7 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Zhong Tao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Zhong Tao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Zhong Tao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Bachelor of Engineering Science (3691) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)