Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3047 Episodic Screen Media Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102831 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description In this subject students will analyse and develop an episodic narrative production proposal using concepts and production strategies for serialised narrative storytelling for online platforms.  Students will be introduced to the University’s broadcast television studio and operation. Students will build their knowledge and practical skills in the conceptualisation, planning, editing of serialised online web and streamed digital based narratives. This subject will require students’ attendance in workshops delivered in blocks and participation in studio recording. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 2052 - Documentary Factual Screen Media OR COMM 2053 - Narrative Fictional Screen Media Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse and evaluate short form episodic and serialised digital media content across platforms
Analyse current screen production theory and practice in relation to text based episodic storytelling
Interpret and apply pre-production strategies to the conceptualisation and development of techniques to develop a pilot for an episodic narratives designed for a specific media platform
Apply knowledge of audio and video production theory, tools and techniques to digital media production
Edit video and audio in a digital software environment
Create and publish media content for online platforms Subject Content Module 1: Introduction to short form episodic and serialised digital media content across platforms and genres including: drama, light entertainment, web serials, radio, pod casting and new forms of content distribution ie: tik tok
Module 2: Analysis of screen production theory and practice in relation to text based episodic storytelling. Development of serialised narratives and narrative devices for audience engagement. Analysis of case studies with focus on format, production bibles, licensing and distribution of content
Module 3: Conceptualising and developing pre-production strategies in the development of a pilot for an episodic narratives designed for a specific media platform. Present pitch.
Module 4. Introduction to University broadcast television studio at Parramatta South. Apply knowledge of audio and video production theory, tools and techniques.
Module 5. In groups or individually film selected pilot and edit video and audio in a digital software environment. Finalise project pitch for submission to industry standards.
Module 6. Create and publish media content for online platforms and portfolio. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 Questions 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 40 N Group N  Reflection 250 words 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)