Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3011 Arabic 302 - Arabic Advanced Language and Grammar Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100048 Coordinator Nawal Sami Opens in new window Description This is the second of a series of two subjects that aim to provide a thorough and more advanced review of comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills, as well as grammar and vocabulary of modern Standard Arabic, its range of registers and its linguistic characteristics. This subject is intended for students who have knowledge and skills in Arabic equivalent to Arabic 301 and who wish to consolidate, develop and improve these skills. This subject is mandatory for students who wish to pursue a specialisation in Arabic. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Arabic 301 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply advanced knowledge of Arabic grammar in speaking, reading and writing
Comprehend spoken Arabic, both formal and informal
Converse intelligibly in Arabic within a wider range of situations in colloquial Arabic as well as Modern Standard Arabic
Read and write Modern Standard Arabic in a wide range of everyday situations. Subject Content A systematic review of advanced aspects of Arabic grammar;
Aural comprehension practice in Arabic by listening to visiting speakers, audio and video tapes, radio and television broadcasts;
Speaking practice in Modern Standard Arabic in spontaneous and prepared discussions and short talks on a variety of topics;
Practice in reading a variety of specialised texts, eg. literary, scientific, educational, etc.;
Practice in various forms of writing in Modern Standard Arabic for Official and academic purposes. Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 4 hours Reading and Writing Task; 4 minute Multimodal presentation 40 N Individual N  Practical 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Nawal Sami Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nawal Sami Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)