Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7005 Controversies in Epidemiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401178 Coordinator Andrew Page Opens in new window Description This subject offers students an opportunity to synthesise theories and methodologies from epidemiology. It highlights current controversies and practices in epidemiology. Students attend weekly presentations on topics related to content area interests, and other relevant seminars. Students will convene with faculty to reflect on and critique components of research presentations relevant to the students' interest and to the contemporaneous topics being covered in the core epidemiology curriculum. Course assignments involve critical appraisal of conceptual and methodological issues presented in the seminars, and related issues relevant to student's own research. School Medicine Discipline Epidemiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 7016 OR
PUBH 7015 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and describe current areas of debate and controversy within the field of epidemiology.
Apply concepts, theories and methods from epidemiology to population and public health priority areas.
Prepare written critiques of recent research in an area of epidemiology.
Summarise theoretical, policy, and practice implications associated with current debates in epidemiology.
Evaluate the relevance of the epidemiological approach to other population and public health disciplines. Subject Content 1. Contemporary topics in epidemiology
2. Research designs in epidemiology
3. Analytic strategies in epidemiology
4. Styles for presentation of epidemiologic findings
5. Critical appraisal and critical thinking
6. Formulation of research questions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 2500 words 60 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Science (3749) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Public Health (PUBH)