Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 1003 Surveying for Engineers (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700120 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with basic skills that are required to carry out surveying.  After the completion of this subject, students will be able to carry out required preliminary surveying for most of the civil and construction engineering projects. Offerings of alternate subjects are dependent on there being sufficient student enrolment numbers. If enrolments are low, the College may cancel delivery of the alternate subject.0 School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Civil Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CIVL 1001 - Surveying for Engineers Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the terminology, instruments, datum, maps and coordinate systems; operate, record and reduce observations made using current industry standard surveying equipment.
Develop contour and building site maps.
Operate, record and adjust angular observations made with current industry standard surveying equipment; use a tape to measure slope distances and to reduce linear observations to the horizontal; to adjust a combination of these angular and linear observations to provide coordinates of the traverse points used.
Estimate errors in engineering surveying and apply necessary adjustments.
Compute cross-sectional areas and volumes for channels and embankments; prepare mass-haul diagrams.
Prepare diagrams and compute parameters for the setting out of the centrelines of roads or railways where horizontal circular and transition curves are to be placed or where a vertical curve is to be placed.
Describe the relationship between global positioning system (GPS), spatial information systems (SIS) and surveying.
Work cooperatively in a team to complete field work, data reduction and analysis and for report writing. Subject Content 1. Errors and accuracies to millimetre tolerances
2. Levelling traverses and height datums
3. Angle and distance traversing, including closures and adjustment of errors in closed traverses
4. Feature surveys, including coordinate systems and map projections
5. Computations of cross-sectional areas and basic volumes for cuttings or embankments for roads or railways
6. Calculation and presentation of mass-haul diagrams
7. The design and setting out parameters for the centrelines of horizontal circular and transition curves and for vertical curves for roads and railways
8. Accuracies required for the building set-out and equipment tolerances
9. Introduction to Geographic/Spatial Information Systems (GIS/SIS) including satellite positioning sources (GNSS) and their use in many engineering contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 x 20minutes =100 minutes 30 N Individual N  Practical 20 pages (team)\n6 hours 20 N Group N  End-of-session Exam Part 1: 2 hours + 30 min for online submission\nPart 2: 20 minutes per student 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil, Testamur Major (T033)