Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7011 Clinical Minimally Invasive Gynaecological Surgery 2 Credit Points 30 Legacy Code 401057 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is a 30 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (15 credit points in each term).Students undertaking this subject will have a detailed knowledge of open abdominal surgery at commencement.  This subject will extend their knowledge in the practical aspects of laparoscopic surgery.  This subject will be completed in Year 2 of the program. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 15cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7010 Restrictions Students must be advanced trainees in Obstetrics and Gynaecology undertaking a Fellowship in Minimally Invasive Gynaecological Surgery at Blacktown Hospital or other accredited site. Students must be enrolled in 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Perform minimally invasive gynaecological surgery in a competent and safe manner for all appropriate problems
Perform competent patient assessment and postoperative care of complex problems
Demonstrate the theory and practice of minimally invasive gynaecological surgery to junior staff
To achieve these, the student needs to demonstrate a high level of critical thinking and judgement through the completion of extensive clinical experience treating patients across the full range of gynaecological surgical disorders, receiving continual critical feedback and engaging in reflective discussion with their clinical specialist supervisor. Achievement of these learning outcomes demonstrate extensive experience in the area of Clinical Minimally Invasive Gynaecological Surgery. Subject Content Surgical techniques required in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery
Pre-operative assessment and post operative care Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Logbook: Logbook continual record and critical reflection on clinical experience, reviewed by and requiring reflective discussion with the supervisor. Continuous 50 Y Individual   Formative assessment report: Clinical assessment 3 monthly 0 N Individual   Summative assessment report: Clinical assessment 6 monthly 50 Y Individual Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)