Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6005 Creative Methods in Research Credit Points 20 Coordinator George Haddad Opens in new window Description What is practice-led research, and how do its methods differ from more traditional research approaches? This subject familiarises students with methods of pursuing and presenting practice-led research across the disciplines of literary studies and creative writing. Working with experienced authors and researchers, students will have the opportunity to explore these methods in their own research or creative practice. The subject includes specific writing exercises that cover a range of practice-led research skills, such as using research databases, critical writing, and building research arguments using creative texts. Students will be guided to develop the skills needed to undertake their extended Masters Project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7001 - Applied Methods in Literary Studies and Creative Writing Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Write at a high level in a range of critical and creative forms.
Locate, assess and use appropriate critical resources.
Critically analyse and reflect on the significance of literary texts in imagining and interpreting the world, and in generating new knowledges.
Construct coherent, evidence-based arguments of literary scholarship.
Critique the range of methods used to produce good quality work of creative writing.
Engage critically with the writing practice of peers. Subject Content This subject will offer an overview of: Methods of research and practice particular to literary studies;
Methods of research and practice particular to creative writing;
How scholarly research can direct the practice of writing;
How the practice of writing can inform scholarly research;
How engaging with techniques and writing exercises can develop both critical and creative practice
How examining the works of particular writers can open up an understanding of writing practice;
An understanding of the value of literature and writing and their role in society. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 3000 words 70 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Online Subject Contact George Haddad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1833) Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)