Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 3001 Building Design Process Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301087 Coordinator Marini Samaratunga Opens in new window Description Building design is an iterative process. In this subject students will gain experience in generating design proposals and responding to simulated client and stakeholder feedback. Holistic designsolutions that address economic, environmental and social issues (triple bottom line assessment) will be generated for realistic building projects. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BLDG 3007 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Respond to a design brief for a building project in western Sydney with a series of potential building design solutions.
Evaluate the appropriateness of several different solutions to the building design problem especially relating to current building regulations.
Recommend a particular preferred solution arguing its benefits in terms of cost, quality and safety.
Reflect on feedback relating to the proposed design and make suitable changes in response.
Illustrate the building design through a fully rendered 3D CAD model. Subject Content Mixed commercial building project design 
National Construction Code (NCC) compliance
Design solution evaluation with respect to Australian Standards and Planning regulations
Iterative response to stakeholder feedback Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 3D CAD model 30 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 3D CAD model and 2D drawings 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Marini Samaratunga Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Building (BLDG) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031)