Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7057 Thirty-Day Research Placement Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800227 Coordinator Anna Denejkina Opens in new window Description In this experiential learning subject, Graduate Certificate in Researcher Engagement, Development and Impact (GCREDI) students undertake a 30-day internship placement to experience current research practice, to develop professional networks, and to demonstrate and strengthen the transferable, professional and technical research skills they have developed through the GCREDI course and their HDR candidature.  Completion of an internship gives research candidates the opportunity to strengthen their research career options and allows for further development of skills in research, planning, management, strategy, professional communication and leadership.   The 30-day internship placement can be undertaken in an industry, government or non-government organisation, and is self-sourced by the student in consultation with the Subject Coordinator. School Graduate Research School Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 7038 AND
HUMN 7005 AND
HUMN 7026 AND
HUMN 7037 AND
HUMN 7003 OR
HUMN 7035 OR
CEDS 7002 Restrictions Internship placement must be agreed between placement site and student; and student and subject Coordinator prior to student enrolling in the subject and commencing the internship placement. Students must be enrolled in a Doctoral (HDR) program and also enrolled in program 8111 - Graduate Certificate in Researcher Engagement, Development and Impact. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate skills required to self-manage research projects as early career researchers.
Demonstrate planning and management of time and resources required for the internship.
Demonstrate an understanding of areas for improvement and development and recommend future development actions using the Extreme Ownership framework.
Reflect on own performance and identify own development needs.
Interpret the relationship between discipline area and research and its contribution to broader societal transformations.
Report on their research work in a professional environment in line with disciplinary standards.
Reflect on own perfomrance and identify own development needs.
Report on their research work in a professional envirnoment and in line with disciplinary standards. Subject Content All content development and delivery are based on the practical application of the following content to the internship placement:
Pre-internship:
1. Experiential learning theory;
2. Project management in research (Part 1): including completion of a pre-internship checklist;
3. Minimum requirements and expectations for a safe workplace and environment; and
4. Professional practices: Innovation, creativity, ethics and diversity in the workplace
5. UN Sustainable Development Goals
During-internship:
1. Developing professional researcher identity;
2. Reflecting on short and longer-term research career plans;
3. Building research and career networks;
4. Experiential learning in practice; and
5. Collaborative practice: collaboration and teamwork in a research environment using the Extreme Ownership framework
Post-internship:
1. Principles of research engagement and impact in industry, government or non-government sectors;
2. Reflecting on personal and professional development;
3. Reflecting on research impact and contribution to broader societal transformations; and
4. Project management in research (Part 2): including completion of a post-internship debrief Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Any Internship placement site requirements must be met prior to commencement of the placement and must be valid for its duration. For example, students’ projects may comprise working with vulnerable populations, and may require students to undertake Child Protection course; Police Check, First Aid, etc. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    e-Portfolio Entries 2 reflective written  entries, 500 words each (1,000 words total) S/U Y Individual   Research Report of Internship Work 3,000 words or equivalent S/U Y Individual   Presentation Mode:
A. Video – graphics with voice over (7 minutes)
OR
B. Presentation with Q & A (15 minutes) S/U Y Individual Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)