Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7022 Creative Teaching and Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102105 Coordinator Joanne Frost Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on processes of creative thinking and creative expression in children and introduces students to the theory and practices of using drama, music, dance, media arts and visual arts in prior to school and school contexts. Arts-based pedagogies, collaborative learning, multiple modes of learning and reflective practices are the key operating principles of the subject. The subject will encompass creativity both as it relates to the arts as well as its critical role in fostering creative thinking and teaching and learning practices. Students will explore the relevance of the arts in the development of children's play and will engage with appropriate information and communication technologies for learning in the arts. The subject provides an understanding of the importance of the art forms both as pedagogical approaches across the early childhood and primary years and as creative arts in their own right. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7045 - Fostering Creativity in Children’s Learning Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Teaching), 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood), 1929 Bachelor of Art (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) or 6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary). Students enrolled in 1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) must have successfully completed 160 credit points before enrolling in this subject.  Students enrolled in 6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) must have successfully completed 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher) before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the physical, social, creative and intellectual capabilities of birth -12 year olds as they relate to drama, music, dance, visual arts and media arts education.
Reflect the importance of creative teaching and learning across the curriculum in the design of creative sequential learning experiences consistent with the Early Years Learning Framework and the NSW K ? 6 Creative Arts Syllabus and related support documents.
Apply arts concepts and elements as they relate to cultural diversity and in particular Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the cultures of the Asia region.
Develop pedagogies, resources, experiences and projects that encourage divergent thinking, creative expression and meaning making and that assist children to communicate their ideas.
Display practical skills and knowledge in the areas of drama, music, dance, visual and media arts.
Explain the socio-cultural and multicultural place of the arts in contemporary society in a manner that incorporates an understanding of diversity and appreciation of difference.
Demonstrate commitment to and advocacy for arts learning across early childhood and primary educational contexts. Subject Content The physical, social, creative and intellectual capabilities of birth -12 year olds as they relate to creativity in the areas of drama, music, dance, visual arts and media arts.
Creative teaching and learning pedagogies consistent with the Early Years Learning Framework and the NSW K - 6 Creative Arts Syllabus and related support documents
Arts concepts and elements as they relate to cultural diversity and in particular Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and cultures of the Asia region.
Pedagogies, resources, experiences and projects that encourage divergent thinking, creative expression and meaning making and that assist children to communicate their ideas.
Practice of skills and knowledge in the areas of drama, music, dance, visual and media arts.
The socio-cultural place of the arts in contemporary society that incorporates diversity and appreciation of difference and the educator's role as an advocate. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Group Y  Report 2,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Joanne Frost Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Joanne Frost Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Education Studies – Early Childhood/Primary Teaching, Minor (0331) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)