Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1003 Biodiversity (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700095 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description How many species walk, fly, swim or slither, crawl, hop, wriggle or just float, hitchhike or move so slowly that they appear not to move at all? No one knows and new species appear almost every day. This subject focuses on this spectacular diversity of living things and the process of evolution. Students explore and classify biodiversity and how organisms function, acquire and assimilate resources and co-ordinate growth and reproduction. Organisms interact with one another and their environment forming a complex set of interactions in ecosystems. It is these interactions that have driven evolution.  Ultimately human survival depends on the sustainable use of this biodiversity and ecosystems. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1002 - Biodiversity LGYB 0458 - Biodiversity (UWSC) BIOS 1001 - Biodiversity Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of biology and chemistry. Learning Outcomes Describe the characteristics of major biological groups and demonstrate how this information can be used to classify an unknown organism.
Explain and provide examples that demonstrate how evolution has given rise to biodiversity.
Describe and explain the role of cells, tissues and organs in the structure and function of organisms.
Explain how organisms acquire the resources necessary to function.
Describe the scientific method and demonstrate how it can be used to test explanations of observations by formulating testable hypotheses and designing experiments.
Conduct basic investigations of organisms using microscopy, experimentation and perform data analysis and interpret results.
Apply and transfer chemical principles to other contexts such as the origin of life, and how organisms acquire the necessary resources to sustain life.
Evaluate data and evidence from scientific literature. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 3 hours x 5 25 N Individual N  Case Study 45 minutes 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam  90 minutes 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Online Block mode The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 3 hours per week x 5 (15 hours total) 40 N Individual   Case Study 2 hours per week x 5 (10 hours total) 30 N Individual   Participation 200 words per week x 6 (1,200 words total) 30 N Individual Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in Science (exit only) (7084) Diploma in Science Extended - Medical Science (7120) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Diploma in Science Fast Track (7009) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)