Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7020 Contemporary Teacher Leadership Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102098 Coordinator Paul Rooney Opens in new window Description This multidisciplinary subject seeks to redefine and inform practice about what it means to be part of teacher-led development in the 21st century. Students will need to develop unique skills and understanding necessary for creating, sustaining and expanding communities of practice within and beyond classrooms. Through an examination of relevant literature connected with local and global networks, students will build, an understanding of cultural assets; professional leadership capacity; and what is required to effect change, leadership and innovation in school culture through teaching and learning innovations and program evaluation. Learning outcomes are based on learning about leadership within an established community of practice. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Co-requisite(s) - Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1914 Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching Learning Outcomes Apply knowledge and skills necessary to create, sustain and expand communities of practice within and beyond their classrooms, faculties and schools
Explain the role of relevant and appropriate professional learning to ensure effective on-going leadership and 21st century change in schools
Evaluate current, future and virtual use of various digital technologies and innovations in schools and how pre-service teachers collaborate with others to effect positive change of themselves as part of 21st century teaching team
Critically analyse the roles, responsibilities, cultural assets and personal/professional attributes required of leaders in understanding what is required to effect change and innovation in teaching
Examine the political and social changes impacting education at global, regional and local levels
Critically analyse research and pre-service teachers' individual practices to identify and address leadership needs and skills which are required to make them 21st century educational change agents Subject Content What does teacher leadership look like in the 21st Century?
How transformational are contemporary models of educational leadership?
What is authentic leadership? How is authentic leadership ethical?
How does contemporary leadership work in cross-cultural contexts at local and global levels?
How does leadership provide sustainable solutions to increasing educational complexity?
What evidence-based research informs actions / responsibilities / dimensions that characterise leadership for learning? How can I apply leadership for changing learning practices in schools?
What are communities of practice and how do they contribute to successful curriculum transformation in teaching and learning?
How can cultural assets that recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander knowledge and learning be applied in school curriculum change? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection Group task-10 minutes of video

 

Individual reflection 1000 words 50 N Group Y  Report  2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)