Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3003 Design Research Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102277 Coordinator Lucy Wang Opens in new window Description This subject offers students the opportunity to develop a self-negotiated design project through exploring a variety of research methods, reflective practice, and concept prototyping. Students will develop a project that focuses on a particular area of interest in order to consolidate their portfolio, and for students enrolled in B Design (Vis Comm), lay the foundation for their fourth year major design project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 2014 OR
DESN 3013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1571 Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication), 1737 Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars), 1839 Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries or 6011 Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication). Successful completion of 160 credit points of undergraduate study and one design field of study subject pairing. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse and report on research outcomes, applying this to the design process.
Devise appropriate strategies for creative experimentation.
Iteratively develop ideas, and creative work.
Present design prototypes at industry standard. Subject Content Explore a variety of research methods in context.
Analyse and report on research findings.
Write a self-directed brief.
Undertake creative experiments.
Reflect on the design process.
Incorporate feedback into the iteration of design artefact/s.
Refine ideas and develop a design prototype. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Proposal 1,500 words  20 N Individual Y  Applied Project Visual work equivalent to 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Lucy Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic and Design (DESN)