Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7017 Interpreting and Translation Professional Practicum (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code A7456 Coordinator Anita Byrnes Opens in new window Description This subject is a capstone subject for the relevant Interpreting and Translation award and is aimed at assisting students in their transition from interpreting and translation trainees to successful professional interpreters and translators. It provides students with the opportunity to participate in practical aspects of the Interpreting and/or Translation professions and related fields, as well as to undertake supervised practice in the workplace. Students will complete the practical work relevant to their field of specialisation, i.e., Interpreting, Translation or both. Together with LANG7030 Preparation for NAATI Certification (PG) it helps students prepare for the NAATI Certification test to be undertaken when they finish their course. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG7020 Introduction to Interpreting PG OR
LANG7021 Introduction to Translation PG Co-requisite(s) LANG7029 Medical Interpreting (PG) OR
LANG7016 Interpreting Skills (PG) OR
LANG7004 Audiovisual Translation Subtitling and Captioning OR
LANG7032 Specialised Translation (PG) OR
LANG7026 Legal Interpreting OR
LANG7006 Business Interpreting OR
LANG7036 Translation Technologies (PG) AND
LANG7030 Preparation for NAATI Certification (PG) OR
LANG7001 Accreditation Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge In order to do the professional practice, students need to have demonstrated a minimum ability to interpret and/or translate, as they will be dealing with real life situations. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply interpreting and/or translation-specific skills and knowledge to the workplace
2. Identify the characteristics and structures of different interpreting and translation settings
3. Articulate and operate with the complexities of professional translation and interpreting Subject Content 1. Placement at an appropriate industry venue.
2. Court attendance and observation.
3. Group interpreting and translation practice within a simulated industry environment.
4. Self-directed program involving the development of interpreting and translation skills.
5. Submission of an observation journal. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. National Criminal History Check: Students must have a current (expiring 3 years from date of issue) check valid for their entire program. A valid National Criminal history check must be an Australia wide check, include the student's full name matching their Student ID card and date of birth and not have any offences listed. If a student has a criminal history identified on their check, they must provide a Clinical Placement Authority Card (CPAC) or conditional letter from the NSW HealthShare Employment Screening and Review Subject https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/careers/student_clearance/Documents/appendix-10-student-application.pdf International students must additionally have a translated International Police Check or statutory declaration. Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website www.westernsydney.edu.au/compliancehub Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 5 days placement; lectures and tutorials/ workshops S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anita Byrnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anita Byrnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Interpreting (1775) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting Studies (exit only) (1778) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)