Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 2003 Landuse and the Environment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300875 Coordinator Samsul Huda Opens in new window Description This subject will assist students develop a sound framework for the analysis of land use and its interactions with the environment. The skills gained will assist in the evaluation of land use at various levels from household to international level. Particular emphasis will be placed on students gaining a sound conceptual framework from which to examine sustainability at the environmental, economic, social, and production levels. Emphasis will be placed on the use of ecological footprinting as a tool. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6188 - Landuse and the Environment Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Utilise Ecological Footprint principles in the analysis of land-use.
Describe the principles of sustainable land-use.
Apply the principles of sustainability with respect to land-use.
Undertake an analysis at regional, country, enterprise or household level of the impacts of land-use on the environment.
Design and develop a computer based calculator for use in predicting the energy consumption of an enterprise.
Debate contemporary issues on landuse and the environment, including such issues as carbon emission trading; use of oil, coal and gas; alternative energy; and global warming myths and facts. Subject Content 1. The theory of climate change and sustainable landuse options primarily for Australian landscapes.
2. ?eReal world?f examples of relevant landuse activities explored to develop an understanding of the interactions between land-use and the environment.
3. Interactions between land-use, production and consumption.
4. Calculation of the carbon emissions and ecological footprint for an enterprise of choice and with recommendations for improvement with regard to desirable and feasible change.
5. The environmental impact of enterprises and the ?eland equivalent?f required to sustain such enterprises. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Debate - Oral Presentation 30 minutes overall time for the group debate 10 N Group   Quiz - Written 2 hours 30 N Individual   Project - Written and Oral Presentation 2,000 words and 15 minutes group presentation 60 (45% individual and 15% group) N Both (Individual & Group) Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Environmental Studies (ENVL)