Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 3002 Business to Business Marketing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200091 Coordinator Neeru Sharma Opens in new window Description From 2022 this subject replaced by MKTG 3020 Omnichannel Marketing. Unlike consumer marketing where an individual makes decisions based on their own needs or those of their household, business-to-business (B2B) marketing involves individuals or companies promoting and selling products and/or services to other companies. This subject encompasses all these aspects of B2B marketing including organisational buying behaviour, B2B market research, management of the marketing mix from a B2B perspective, relationship and network marketing, supply chain management and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) strategies, and business marketing strategy. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MKTG 1006 Equivalent Subjects LGYC 0203 - Business-to- Business Marketing LGYA 9904 - Business-to-Business Marketing Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of marketing concepts, theories and frameworks. Learning Outcomes Apply the theories and concepts of business-to-business (B2B) marketing.
Disseminate practical knowledge of B2B marketing management and its relationship to corporate and business strategy.
Implement analytical, interpersonal and decision-making skills appropriate to achieving B2B marketing objectives Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 35 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 60 mins (online) 20 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words  45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Sales and Marketing (MKTG)