Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2001 Account and Client Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101941 Coordinator Kristen Marshall Opens in new window Description Effectively managing a client or an ‘account’ requires a special combination of skills. In this subject, you’ll learn the basic principles of account management and how to nurture and foster an environment of trust, respect and partnership. Working on an applied project, you’ll explore best practice in ‘hard skills’: understanding clients’ objectives, developing a strategy, managing a project, preparing and holding effective meetings, writing WIPs (work in progress) and contact reports, and working toward specific financial/success metrics. Just as important to your success in client-facing roles are ‘soft skills’. You’ll learn how to be more proactive, overcome procrastination, manage ‘challenging’ personalities, develop a network, adapt to cross-cultural differences, and present well. Both hard and soft skills are critical to the success of your project, your role as client liaison, and importantly, your career. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Equivalent Subjects COMM 2044 - Writing for the Professions Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Analyse and discuss liaison strategies and collaborative approaches taken with key stakeholders.
2. Articulate the impact of their role and actions on clients’ financial returns.
3. Demonstrate flexibility, empathy and adaptability in a rapidly evolving work environment.
4. Apply the blend of skills and knowledge necessary to effectively manage client-based projects. Subject Content Through a weekly lecture and tutorial, students will become familiar with issues and approaches in client liaison, and different approaches to optimizing outcomes. Tutorials are largely concerned with role play, critical evaluations, and classroom discussion. The following are explored:
1. Proactive management of clients and other stakeholders
2. Understanding clients' business objectives, and the marketplace
3. Success metrics
4. Client presentations/meetings
5. Best practice communication with different stakeholder groups
6. Strategies in optimising relationships
7. Financial implications of actions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 x 10 multiple choice questions 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 word document, 2 videos, group presentation 10 minutes 40 N Group N  Short Answer 5 questions 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advertising Studies, Minor (0043) Advertising, Major (0159) Advertising, Minor (0159) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) Global Workplaces, Minor (0316) Public Relations, Major (0160) Public Relations, Minor (0160) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)