Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7050 Transferable Research Skills Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401164 Coordinator Bill Price Opens in new window Description This subject is an elective subject as part of the Master of Research and provides training in essential skills for research students in the health, medical, biomedical and natural sciences. Students will select two modules that will provide experience in advanced techniques and methodologies directly relevant to a specific area of research. It is expected that this subject, together with the subject Experimental Design and Analysis, will provide students in the health, medical, biomedical and natural sciences with a solid foundation before commencing the research project in the second year of the Master of Research degree. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions An active researcher on the graduate supervisory register is required to supervise students. Assumed Knowledge Students will have completed an undergraduate degree in a related discipline area. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recall key principles of the operation and data acquisition associated with specific laboratory equipment OR recall key principles of the theory and practice of a research method
Evaluate the quality of data produced using a specific piece of laboratory equipment or research methodology
Describe how techniques and/or methodologies from both modules can be combined to investigate a research question Subject Content 1. Advanced practical training for a specific research methodology or topic
2. Theory and application of a specific research methodology or topic
3. Interdisciplinary research: understanding how the combination of these techniques contributes to a research project Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical assessment 1000 words (for each module) 60 Y Individual Y  Online assessment 1 hour (for each module) 20 Y Individual Y  Oral presentation 15 minutes (1 presentation in final week of semester) 20 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)