Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7078 Professional Nursing Practice Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401465 Coordinator Jane Frost Opens in new window Description Professional Nursing Practice provides an opportunity to consolidate the development of the role and clinical skills of the registered nurse in preparation for transition to graduate practice. A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and a professional experience placement to evaluate clinical skills development. The subject includes 240 hours of Professional Experience Placement. All assessments in this subject are mandatory. Attendance is also mandatory in all workshops and Clinical Practice Unit sessions in this subject. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7074 and NURS 7075 Co-requisite(s) NURS 7079 Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points and students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Completed all other subjects in 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Graduate Entry). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse leadership when initiating and managing collaborative practice in nursing
Coordinate resources effectively with justification for planned actions
Explain the application of strategies to respond appropriately and professionally to situations that may create personal discomfort including giving and receiving feedback
Comply with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other standards or requirements relevant to the context of practice when making decisions
Practise in accordance with relevant policies, guidelines, standards, regulations, and legislation Subject Content Transition to graduate practice
Working in multi-disciplinary teams and understanding intraprofessional and interprofessional relationships
Clinical practicum
Consolidate and review Core Practice Skills, including Hand Hygiene
Recognising and responding to variations in health status
? ECG
? BGL
? Vital signs
? Work of breathing
Risk assessment ? falls, pressure injury, venous thromboembolism (VT)
? Oxygenation
? Medication therapy
Prioritising care across the lifespan
? Recognising the deteriorating patient
? Primary survey
? National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards
Working in complex and dynamic acute healthcare contexts
? Rapid Response Teams
? Basic and Advanced Life Support
? Emergency drugs
Complex IV Therapy, Parental Nutrition and Central Venous Access Devices
? Multiple infusions
? Dressing of lines ? when, how, why
? Arterial lines
Scenarios: Using low medium and high-fidelity simulation-based case studies to facilitate improvement in
? Time management
? Clinical judgement
? Teamwork and responsibilities of care providers
? Managing others/ leadership and delegation
? Accountability
? Nurse as educator
? Family focused care
? Numeracy ? medication calculations
? Principles of Work Health and Safety in clinical practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual N  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 240 hours S/U Y Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Jane Frost Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jane Frost Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)