Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1018 News and Media Today Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100556 Coordinator Asha Chand Opens in new window Description Built on the ideas that we must tell a story about all that we are, and do, this subject introduces students to the fields of news, journalism, and media for a deeper understanding on the impacts of news, where it comes from, and how to spot key elements for compelling stories. Students learn to identify news, research, and write copy for local audiences while understanding the power of the media to reach global audiences. Highlights of the subject include pitching ideas, writing news with speed, accuracy, and to industry standards, for publishing and broadcasting to identified audiences.
Ethical research, editing, and the importance of sources form an integral part of learning.
Understanding the media landscape, the demand and importance of journalistic skills and inquiry across a variety of communication industries, corporate and government sectors allow students to critically consider career choices through the relevance of what they learn about storytelling. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Journalism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0049 - Journalism News Reporting COMM 1019 - Introduction to Journalism (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the importance of news and journalism in the modern world.
Understand the importance of audiences and medias when choosing news.
Explain the flow of information in creating news and applying storytelling techniques.
Ask questions, conduct interviews and research in a professional context.
Engage with the news and news environments for published outcomes.
Apply skills gained for intellectual and professional insights. Subject Content Understanding the power of news and journalism
Applying skills learned to find local news, research, and write/edit with speed for published outcomes
Learn about the media landscape, ownership, and history.
Tailor learning to become effective communicators using news and journalism skills.
Create a portfolio of work as an add-on to students’ academic qualifications. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 400 words with one primary and one secondary source 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 600 words, including photos, video, voice with at least two secondary sources for publishing in a relevant chosen media 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio To include all weekly homework, including 150 word chapter answers, class writing exercises, 500 word report 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Asha Chand Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Asha Chand Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Asha Chand Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1736) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Journalism, Major (0069) Journalism, Minor (0069) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)