Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2023 The Composer-Performer Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101539 Coordinator Bruce Crossman Opens in new window Description Students are required to both perform and compose in this subject. While students may choose to perform their own work, this subject also offers the opportunity for students to experience the particular challenges and rewards offered by the close collaboration entailed in both sides of the composer/performer interface. Each student will choose a balance of performance and composition tasks appropriate to her/his specific musical path. The subject presents basic compositional techniques and canvasses issues regarding the composer/performer relationship through a series of lectures, tutorials and workshops. Students will also continue to develop their event administration skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1017 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1099 - Music Performance 4 The Composer-Performer Assumed Knowledge Students are to have completed the pre-requisites or equivalent knowledge and ability will be determined by the Subject Coordinator. Learning Outcomes plan, develop and perform a project as a featured player
acquire the skills necessary to compose for given combinations of instruments
extend on musical communication skills acquired in earlier units
further develop skills in music notation acquired in earlier units
apply techniques to structure musical material
contextualise the composer/performer experience through a detailed project proposal
meet the challenge of giving the first performance of a new work
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: participate in and contribute to Art of Sound activities and projects, collaborating with students across the Music program to develop and enhance production, technical and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in contributing to the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Either two compositions and one performance; OR one composition and two performances composition = 3-5minutes; performance = 3-5 minutes 60 N Individual N  Professional Task Composition = 1.5-2.5 minutes;  15 N Individual N  Professional Task Performance = 3-5 minutes or x 2 3-5 minutes 15 N Individual N  Proposal 600 words 10 N Individual N  Participation Min 2 hrs per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bruce Crossman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Composition, Minor (0067) Music Performance Studies, Minor (0024) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music Performance, Minor (0023) Performing Arts (PERF)