Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1013 Policing, Justice and Society (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700238 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description In this unit, the role and function of police from a social, historical and comparative perspective as well as different policing practices in Australia and other nations, are described, explained and analysed.  The structure, roles, and reform of police are addressed, as are other issues such as social diversity and community relations and debates about distinct policing strategies and their social impact. Students will explore the relevance of policing theories and concepts in contemporary society. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects JUST 2012 - Law Evidence and Procedure CULT 1016 - Theories and Concepts of Policing (UWSC) CULT 1015 - Theories and Concepts of Policing CULT 1012 - Policing Justice and Society Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: After successful completion of this unit, students will be able to:
Describe the major trends underpinning past and contemporary policing in a democratic society;
Compare and contrast the range of policing roles;
Articulate the various policing models and strategies available;
Evaluate the key theories and concepts used to inform policing practice for the range of individuals and groups with which they engage. Subject Content 1. Comparative and historical perspectives on policing
2. The roles and functions of police
3. Policing, inequality and social diversity
4. Gender, race, ethnicity, social class and policing
5. Policing ethics and accountability
6. Community and democratic policing
7. Recent strategies and effectiveness (problem oriented / intelligence/evidence and partnership policing)
8. Working with victims and communities
9. Working with suspects and offenders
10. Reform and professionalisation
11. Policing, risk and terrorism Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 x10 weeks @ 30 minutes per quiz 10 N Individual Y  Report 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Other Society and Culture (CULT)