Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2035 Principles of Zoology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300979 Coordinator Kate Umbers Opens in new window Description Explores the diversity of invertebrate and vertebrate life in a phylogenetic context. Taxonomy, anatomy, ecology, ethology and physiology of major groups of animals are examined. Patterns will be examined from an evolutionary perspective and the subject will focus on structure and function to examine specialisations and adaptations of animals to their environment. The subject will use lectures and laboratory sessions to allow an interactive appreciation of the diversity of biological mechanisms and processes in the Animal Kingdom. School Science Discipline Zoology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 1001 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the Phylum and Class to which any animal belongs, and within certain Classes, identify its Order;
Place animal Phyla in an evolutionary sequence, using evidence derived from body architecture, symmetry and internal complexity;
Explain reproductive mechanisms and life-cycles of animals in relation to lifestyle and habitat;
Characterise each of the major animal Phyla and constituent Classes in terms of their distinguishing features; relate physiological complexity to phylogenetic sequence;
Analyse the reasons for the success and diversity of the arthropods and vertebrates;
Dissect, identify and describe the function of major internal organs or structures of invertebrates and vertebrates;
Analyse and present data and communicate key findings. Subject Content 1. Porifera & Cnidaria
2. Platyhelminthes, Nematoda & Annelida
3. Mollusca
4. Arthropoda
5. Echinodermata
6. Molluscs
7. Segmented Worms & Pseudocoelomates
8. Arthropods and Echinoderms
9. Lower Chordates & Fishes
10. Amphibians
11. Reptiles
12. Birds
13. Mammals Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Recorded Presentation (video or audio) 3 mins 35 N Individual   Quiz up to 30 mins per quiz 30 N Individual   Final Exam - Online multiple choice and open answer questions 2 hours 35 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS)