Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2055 English Text Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102812 Coordinator David McInnes Opens in new window Description The English Language is always used in context. The contexts in which we use English require us to use the language in specific ways. This subject introduces students to the analysis of English texts in context. Students will learn how to analyse text structure and purpose, and they will learn how to analyse the systems of the English language as they are used to facilitate context specific and context appropriate communication. Working between models of social contexts and the language level systems of English, students will develop a greater level of skill in using English for exposition, explanation, reporting, recounting and narrating. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline the relationship between text and context using functional models of context.
Describe the function, structure and features of key English text types/genres including recount, report, exposition, explanation and narrative
Outline the contextual dimensions of real-world texts used/produced across a range of contexts using the ideas of field, tenor and mode.
Analyse the use of English systems and structures to account for language use in context at lexicogrammatical and discourse levels. Subject Content 1. Functional models of language, context and text.
2. Generic analysis of texts types including reports, recounts, narratives, explanations and expositions.
3. Models of context of situation including Field, Tenor and Mode.
4. Language analysis and text descriptions articulated to text structure, purpose and contextual variables including lexicogrammatical systems of transitivity, mood and theme and discourse level systems of thematic progression, hierarchies of periodicity and grammatical metaphor. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 3 x analysis tasks (20% each) 
40 minutes each 60 N Individual Y  Short Answer 2 x writing tasks (20% each)
500 words each 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact David McInnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) International English, Major (0018) International English, Minor (0018) Language and Literature (LANG)