Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7074 Family Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Angelo Bistolaridis Opens in new window Description Family Law is a key area of study for students who intend to enter legal practice. This subject aims to graduate students who will become reflective, ethical, and effective family lawyers and/or family dispute resolution practitioners. Students will engage in professional learning activities to demonstrate their application of this body of law in practice. This subject adopts a range of critical perspectives in relation to developments in theory, laws, policies, and practices concerned with the legal regulation of intimate relationships, particularly after separation. Family law balances the competing rights, obligations and interests of partners, children and others following separation, often in the context of complex family dynamics. It also examines the cultural, social, political, psychological and economic contexts that influence separating families. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3023 Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 2826 Juris Doctor program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically analyse the impact of family domestic violence on families and children and propose appropriate measures to ensure the safety of family members.
Apply relevant legislation and case law, focusing on the Family Law Act, to provide practical assistance to clients with post separation problems.
Critically evaluate developments in law, policy, and practices in family law systems.
Critically reflect on their own development and competence as a family law professional. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,500 words 45 N Individual N  Professional Task 24 hours (for take home exam). 30 minutes for Moot 45 N Individual N  Participation Ongoing 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Angelo Bistolaridis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Angelo Bistolaridis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)