Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2001 Core Competencies in Physiotherapy Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400982 Coordinator Roy Cheung Opens in new window Description Students build on their knowledge and skills explored in their first 1.5 years of physiotherapy study. It focuses on the core competencies of physiotherapy professional practice, which will be developed through a variety experiential and community engagement learning activities. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include communication, documentation, and reflection, professional and ethical behaviour. In addition, students will develop skills in client assessment, and interpretation of findings to formulate hypothesized problem lists and goals for patients. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 1002 Co-requisite(s) NATS 2008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy, 4668 Bachelor of Health Science (Honours)/Master of Physiotherapy, 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy, 4707 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) or 4733 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours). Students must have successfully completed 120 credit points of core subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply elementary clinical assessment skills across different areas of physiotherapy practice including core musculoskeletal, neurological and cardiorespiratory physiotherapy in different healthcare contexts.
Perform a case sensitive analyse and interpretation of clinical assessment findings to formulate a client-centred problem list considering impairments, and activity and participation limitations.
Identify relevant and detailed information from a range of clinical scenarios using client-centred clinical reasoning, with appreciation of professional conduct, ethics, and safety.
Communicate effectively for the purpose of gaining informed consent and engaging a person in a therapeutic alliance for person-centred clinical assessment.
Apply safe work practices, professional behaviours and self-management strategies for a clinical context.
Critically self-reflect and evaluate the performance of the therapist and client in a clinical context. Subject Content 1. Safe work practices, understanding risk management
2. Client examination, including a patient interview and physical examination underpinned by development of clinical reasoning and decision making
3. Professional communication skills with clients, carers and colleagues
4. Professional and ethical behaviour
5. Preparation for practice in the context of physiotherapy Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites PLEASE NOTE: Due to Covid restrictions the First Aid requirement is currently suspended. July 2021. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 30 minutes 60 Y Individual Y  Simulation 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Simulation 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook  S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Roy Cheung Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)