Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2029 Professional Practice Experience 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401012 Coordinator Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window Description Professional Practice Experience 4 focuses on the development of the role and clinical skills of the registered nurse when caring for people experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition. A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and a professional experience placement to evaluate clinical skills development. The subject includes 160 hours of Professional Experience Placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 2028 Professional Practice Experience 3 Co-requisite(s) NURS 2038 Health Variations 2 – Chronic Conditions and Disability AND
NURS 2016 Health Variations 3 - Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing, 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online . or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge Foundational knowledge of primary health care, professional communication, roles and responsibilities of the registered nurse, perioperative nursing, and human biological and behavioural sciences. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of safe medication administration in complex clinical scenarios in a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Evaluate nursing care plans by monitoring progress towards the expected goals and health outcomes.
Plan and negotiate how practice will be evaluated and the time frame of engagement
Utilise an evidence-based approach to assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation of nursing care in a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Perform safe medication administration, with a focus of non-parenteral and parenteral medications, for people experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition or illness in a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in nursing. Subject Content 1. Preventing and Controlling Healthcare Associated Infections
2. Medication Safety
3. Patient Identification and Procedure Matching
4. Clinical Handover (include ISBAR communication tool)
5. Blood and Blood Products
6. Preventing and managing pressure injuries
7. Preventing falls and harm from falls
8. Assessment, admission procedures and the nursing history
9. Documentation - progress, incidents, escalation, patient safety checklist
10. Recognising and Responding to Variations in Health Status (A to G assessment)
11. Recognising abnormal pathology results
12. Nursing care and management
13. Working in multi-disciplinary teams
14. Clinical practicum
15. Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 mins S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 10 mins S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 mins S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 160 hours S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Melanie Bingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)