Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1022 Literacy Skills for Teacher Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102112 Coordinator Milena Ilisevic Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the profession of teaching and examines key priorities that are central to the literacy demands on a teacher-educator. It aims to develop oral and written communication skills, skills in reading for academic purposes, and knowledge, skills and confidence in literacy and academic writing. The subject also provides a general orientation to University life, familiarising students with the language of tertiary institutions and the general requirements for progression and assessment. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 1029 - University Study Skills Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 - Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify areas of their own written and oral communication that require development to ensure communication skills are appropriate to support a teacher professional identity in new times. This will include intercultural concepts of teacher education. (Standard 2.5.1).
Develop an action plan for enhancing identified areas of their own literacy development. (Standard 1.4.1,2.5.1).
Practise and refine the oral and written skills as required in the profession. (Standard 2.5.1).
Identify different types of reading, and develop critical thinking skills that are applicable to specific academic situations. (Standard 1.4.1,2.5.1).
Apply a working knowledge of the grammatical and structural conventions used in the profession. (Standard 2.5.1).
Write a well-structured academic essay. (Standard 2.5.1).
Use referencing and citation conventions accurately and appropriately in academic writing. (Standard 2.5.1). Subject Content 1. Intercultural concepts of teacher education;
2. Reading and writing for academic purposes;
3. Interpreting genres and writing styles;
4. Accessing and using e-learning sites;
5. Assessment and development of skills and knowledge equivalent to Higher School Certificate Band 5 English;
6. Development of identified areas of literacy need;
7. Familiarisation and engagement with teacher research and professional literature (such as AITSL standards, ACARA, and NESA). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Various - as allocated  10 N Individual Y  Annotated Bibliography 600 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1,200  50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Teacher Education (TEAC)