Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2001 Arranging Music Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102566 Coordinator David Cashman Opens in new window Description This subject introduces concepts and skills necessary to arrange music in popular-commercial and orchestral contexts.  Lectures provide background on the use of instruments, harmony, timbre and texture, and tutorials provide practical exercises in preparation for the assignments. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 2015 OR
PERF 2004 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0425 - Arranging Popular Music PERF 2002 - Arranging Musics Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Arrange a given melody for piano/short score.
Construct an arrangement for large ensemble of a pre-existing piano score.
Arrange a song for a medium sized ensemble.
Analyse the musical roles of instruments in a musical score, and be familiar with the ranges of the instruments.
Score idiomatic parts for a range of instruments.
Apply stylistic elements of a chosen genre to their own arrangements.
Read and arrange simple melodies at the keyboard, and read chords from a lead sheet on keyboard or guitar.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Participate in and contribute to Art of Sound activities and projects, collaborating with students across the Music program to develop and enhance production, technical and performance skills. Subject Content Skills in arranging for piano, and for medium and large ensembles
Theoretical knowledge of harmony, chord voicing and musical textures
Practical knowledge of instrument capabilities
Practical knowledge of computer notation and musical scoring conventions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 32 bars 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 32 bars 40 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes 20 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Performing Arts (PERF)