Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7005 Urban Management Practice: Governance and Power in the City Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101314 Coordinator Anna Leditschke Opens in new window Description Governance is a central but often overlooked issue in Urban Management. What is governance? What are the principles of good governance? What are some of the governance challenges in major metropolitan cities that cover multiple jurisdictions? How do statutory local governments engage with specialist state agencies in fields such as economic development, environmental planning, and infrastructure planning?  This subject answers these questions, reviews governance practices in major cities across the world and provides students with knowledge of key governance tools. Students will prepare a research report dealing with a significant urban governance challenge, and provide recommendations about how to implement solutions to that challenge. The central objective of the course is to provide students with a sound framework and set of tools with which to address governance issues. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes Identify and explain the conceptual planning issues and relevant State legislation;
Compare the requirements for and explain the differences between the various layers of planning as they relate to federal, state and local governments;
Review the political, social and physical influences that shape towns and cities and reflect on the role of the community and the courts in influencing development outcomes;
Discuss the concepts of environmental capacity, sustainability and the preservation of the natural and built environment and identify constraints to development;
Develop various responses for planning urban and rural developments;
Analyse the links between development and environmental impacts and identify mechanisms to limit those impacts in planning for safe and cost effective developments. Subject Content 1. Conceptual planning issues and constraints;
2. Development control and its place in society;
3. Planning hierarchies and planning instruments (planning legislation);
4. Achieving planning objectives;
5. Exempt and complying development;
6. Sustainability and environmental impact;
7. Planning and the management of natural environments;
8. Planning and heritage conservation;
9. Rural development and coastal development;
10. Community consultation;
11. The role of the courts;
12. Planning and the future. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 500 words 15 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Anna Leditschke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Research Studies (Planning) (8119) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management and Planning (1676) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)