Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3017 Learning Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102679 Coordinator Michelle Gardner Opens in new window Description This subject engages students in exploring the role of physical environments that support children’s learning in early childhood and community settings. Theoretical perspectives, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, sociocultural influences and place-based pedagogies will be investigated. Relevant policy and regulation documents around risk, play and pedagogy will be examined. Through field visits to early childhood and community settings, students will have the opportunity to plan and design indoor and outdoor learning environments that encourage investigation and discovery using natural and open-ended materials. The overall focus of this subject is for students to develop an understanding and appreciation for learning environments that promote a connection to place and sustainability. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have successfully completed 120 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Evaluate children’s engagement and interaction with environments.
Analyse the role and impact of stimulating and engaging physical environments for the development of the child.
Apply key policy and regulatory documents to the planning and design of children’s physical learning spaces.
Apply contemporary theoretical and philosophical perspectives related to the child nature relationship and sustainability education to inside and outside learning spaces.
Design a space for children incorporating space, place and time on the lived experience and identity of individual children. Subject Content Theories that integrate concepts of children, nature and play
Significance of space, place, time and silence as lived experience and its influence on everyday practice
Contemporary national and international theories and philosophies related to the child-nature relationship and sustainability education, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, socio-cultural influences and place-based pedagogies
Key policies and regulations for outdoor learning, play and inclusive physical environments
Documenting and implementing learning programs that support place-based pedagogies and sustainability learning
Researching inside and outside learning environments for and with children
The relationship between physical environments and children’s experiences of place
The design of children’s physical learning spaces Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, pre-service teachers must have satisfactorily completed online Child Protection Awareness Training, have a current Working with Children Check, and the online course ASCIA Anaphylaxis: Australasian childcare. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 750 words 25 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,600 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Michelle Gardner Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)