Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 2007 Illustrating Narrative Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101017 Coordinator Janet Saunders Opens in new window Description This subject explores the design of illustration as a linear narrative and its conceptual, stylistic, and format aspects. Students will create a linear illustrated narrative (12+ page book or equivalent digital format) where they will be encouraged to consider the design of different narrative forms, illustrative techniques, and styles for the target audience, client, context, and genre. Additionally, the subject aims to help students explore and enhance their image-making practices using traditional and digital tools. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic and Design Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1013 OR
DESN 1011 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0045 - Illustrative Narrative 3 and LGYA 0052 - Illustrative Narrative 4 Assumed Knowledge An ability to use the computer programs 'In-Design, Photoshop, and Illustrator' in a Macintosh
computer lab. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Employ a range of diverse illustrative mediums, techniques, styles and typography to create specific sequential 'reading' experiences through illustration.
Explain how the design elements and format of a book design can influence the 'reading' experience of the target audience.
Reflect on the effectiveness of image making strategies through illustrative practices.
Employ the compositional strategy of visual weight and directed tension in the design of an illustrated book.
Explain how the needs of the target audience, the content of the written text, and the social context of the proposed book influence the design criteria.
Employ concept mapping to identify the structure and communication options for illustrated narrative design.
Employ appropriate format design options for an illustrated book.
Demonstrate the development of professional accountability, through effective time management and participation in critical discussion in feedback, on project work. Subject Content Experimentation with a range of traditional and digital mediums and illustration techniques to develop individual image-making practices.
Composition, format design, visual weight and directed tension in relation to designing an illustrated linear narrative.
Visual strategies to convey concepts of space, time and movement.
Explore format design, page/screen layout, relationship of type to image, colour, and other design devices.
Analysis of text for conceptual content and the development of appropriate visual signifiers.
Research and analysis of context, target audience and conceptual content of selected written text, with the purpose of developing suitable illustrations for that text.
Producing drafts of character/s, backgrounds or other stylistic approaches while mapping story flow for teacher/client feedback.
Provide evidence of original thinking through your drafts and evaluation of your process. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Visual work, 500-word research report 50 N Individual Y  Applied Project Visual work 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Janet Saunders Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)