Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3002 Ethical Hacking Principles and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301124 Coordinator Weisheng Si Opens in new window Description This subject teaches students ethical hacking principles and skills with the ultimate goal of defence. It covers practical skills in different stages of ethical hacking, including reconnaissance on public information, port and vulnerability scanning, exploitation of vulnerabilities, post exploitation, and writing a comprehensive report to document detected vulnerabilities and proposed solutions. Students will not only practise with major tools in ethical hacking, but also learn the principles of how these tools work and hence how to defend against them. Students completing this subject can pursue careers such as ethical hackers, security architects or security analysts. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 2004 OR
COMP 2005 AND
COMP 2020 OR
COMP 2021 Assumed Knowledge Students should have a solid understanding of computer networking (especially with the TCP/IP protocol suite), possess basic programming skills in developing computer applications and web applications, and command basic knowledge and skills in databases and operating systems. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify the differences between lawful and unlawful behaviour in conducting ethical hacking
2. Apply reconnaissance knowledge and tools to gather public information about systems and networks
3. Apply port scanning knowledge and tools to detect port status in target computers
4. Apply vulnerability scanning knowledge and tools to detect vulnerabilities in target computers
5. Apply exploitation knowledge and tools to verify and exploit the detected vulnerabilities
6. Apply post exploitation knowledge and tools to evaluate the severity of vulnerabilities
7. Detect and defend against social engineering techniques
8. Apply web penetration testing knowledge and tools to detect vulnerabilities in web applications
9. Compile a comprehensive ethical hacking report. Subject Content 1. Introduction to ethical hacking: concepts, legal requirements, stages, and lab environment 
2. Reconnaissance based on public information, and its major tools. 
3. Port scanning, and its major tools. 
4. Vulnerability scanning, and its major tools 
5. Exploitation of vulnerabilities, and its major tools
6. Post exploitation, and its major tools 
7. Social Engineering, and its major tools. 
8. Web penetration testing, and its major tools. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 12 quizzes with each quiz taking 20 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical 10 labs with each lab taking 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 2000 - 3000 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam One hour 40 N Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 3 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 11 quizzes each containing 10 multiple-choice questions 15 N Individual Y  Practical 10 labs each requiring two hours of work 25 N Individual Y  Report 6-10 pages 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Weisheng Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Weisheng Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Weisheng Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Weisheng Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Data Science (3769) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Cloud Computing, Minor (0128) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Minor (0326) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Cyber Security, Major (0066) Cybersecurity Networking, Minor (0274) Networked Systems, Major (0065) Networking and Cloud Computing, Testamur Major (T146) Networking, Major (0040) Networking, Minor (0040) Other information Technology (INFO) Systems Programming, Major (0064)