Academic Handbook Current Edition CHEM 3004 Advanced Organic Chemistry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300906 Coordinator Christopher Gordon Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the reactions learnt in the subject Organic Chemistry, extending the range of C-C bond forming reactions to include the most significant in modern synthesis. In the second stage students learn to develop multistep synthetic strategies to produce target molecules using their level 2 organic chemistry and the reactions above. Structural analysis by mass spectroscopy and more advanced NMR techniques is also investigated. The students use this chemistry in a lab course designed to highlight a number of these concepts (including the synthesis of 2 pharmaceutical compounds and a team experiment) and to extend their range of practical skills. School Science Discipline Organic Chemistry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CHEM 2008 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6141 - Drug Design and Synthesis CHEM 3013 - Organic Chemistry 3 Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply relevant knowledge to major carbon-carbon bond forming reactions in organic chemistry
Analyse information on a range of chemical reactions and the reagents, solvent and conditions to predict the structure of reaction major product and by-products
Analyse and apply scientific knowledge to solve problems on the mechanism, regio- and stereo-specific organic reactions with experimental outcomes across the discipline
Explain reactions of simple heterocyclic systems
Analyse and interpret qualitatively and quantitatively the spectroscopic data (Infrared, UV and 1H,13C Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and mass spectral data) to elucidate the organic molecular structures
Successfully plan and conduct basic chemical investigations on synthetic techniques for organic compounds carrying out the risk assessments and conforming to safe laboratory practices, either individually or a member of a team
Generate a formal Lab report and/or record of the experimental data, by interpreting data with an awareness of the conventions of scientific writing with chemical mechanisms, critiquing the methodology, accuracy and reliability of data and proposing strategies to improve Subject Content 1. Nucleophilic C-C bond forming reactions
2. C-C bond formation via palladium coupling and ring closing metathesis
3. C-C bond formation via orbital symmetry controlled reactions
4. Introductory heterocyclic chemistry
5. Spectroscopy (IR, UV, Mass & 1H and 13C NMR)
6. Synthetic design
7. Total organic synthesis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 300 words in total for the lab report (10%); Lab report on multi-step synthesis up to 1,000 words including chemical structures (15%); A 3-minute oral presentation of a single PPT slide relevant to organic synthesis (5%). 30 Y Individual Y  Short Answer Up to 100 words and chemical structures 5 N Individual N  Short Answer 1 hour, an individual assignment under supervision during week 11, to be scheduled during the lecture time 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 15 Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Christopher Gordon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chemical Sciences (CHEM) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Secondary Chemistry Education, Major (0349)