Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3063 Reward and Performance Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200739 Coordinator Brandon Gordon Opens in new window Description 'Reward and Performance Management' introduces students to critical perspectives in reward management. Through case studies students consider the wider context in which reward strategies are devised and the strategic decisions that arise if reward is to meet regulatory requirements, organisation objectives and the expectations of the workforce. Students examine the component parts of contemporary reward and critically assess the relationship between performance and reward. Through engagement with different types of performance management systems, students identify and assess contrasting approaches to performance management. School Business Discipline Human Resource Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 1023 Incompatible Subjects BUSM 3040 - Management of Employee Performance LGYA 4822 - Remuneration Theory and Practice Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Accurately use the language of reward and performance management in verbal and written argument.
Critically assess reward and performance management principles and practices in terms of the competing interests of employers and employer associations, employees and trade unions, and governments and tribunals.
Critically assess contrasting approaches to reward.
Identify contrasting approaches to the management of organisational and employee performance.
Critically assess models of performance management and the processes through which organisations and systems develop, enhance and reward employee performance. Subject Content 1. Models of reward and the labour market.
2. Differing approaches to equity and the grounds for regulatory intervention.
3. The shape of reward in Australia.
4. Contemporary developments in approaches to reward.
5. Choice and flexibility in reward management design.
6. Performance management as a system to align employee performance with organisational objectives.
7. Models of performance management as systems to develop, enhance and reward employee performance.
8. The management and appraisal of employee performance.
9. Challenges in performance management.
10. Economic, social and environmental sustainability and reward and performance management. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Debate Students must nominate to participate in 6 out of  10 debates. 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Brandon Gordon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Brandon Gordon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Brandon Gordon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Brandon Gordon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Brandon Gordon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Human Resource Management, Testamur Major (T041)