Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7141 Teaching and Learning in Classrooms Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102076 Coordinator Kellie Jorda Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject is designed to prepare students for their role as active, thoughtful leaders of learning environments for primary students. Students will come to an understanding of their trajectory as professional learners as they develop a deeper understanding of who they are as teachers.  The portfolio that they begin in this subject will be a vehicle for them to reflect deeply on their emerging skills and understandings and will be part of their development of a critical perspective of their practice as a teacher. Building on previous understanding about how children learn the students will plan lesson sequences using a range of teaching strategies. The subject will familiarise students with the processes needed to implement the mandated national and state curriculums in their unique classrooms with the diversity of students with whom they are working. A study of techniques to create safe and well managed learning environments where school students feel a sense of ownership of their learning will aid successful completion of the associated practicum subject.  The practice of continuous assessment, planning, implementation and reflection that is the curriculum cycle will provide an organising principle around which the understandings gained in the curriculum units can be built. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) TEAC 7154 Professional Experience 1 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7069 - Learning for Teaching Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary)
Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Implement teaching strategies that meet the needs of classroom learners from diverse backgrounds and who have a range of learning needs and abilities.
Identify the requirements of the practice of teaching through an examination of the curriculum planning and implementation and assessment cycle, including the use of software for profiling and reporting, lesson preparation and class administration.
Apply a range of teaching strategies, using digital and traditional resources, to match the learning needs of the children with whom they will be working.
Apply principles from theoretical models of discipline to promote positive behaviours for learning and so identify a range of approaches to managing student behaviour and promoting their wellbeing in classrooms.
Examine the thoughtful creation of safe classroom environments that promote student engagement and positive learning cultures.
Evaluate the role of a range of assessment practices that consistently interpret available data and facilitate feedback to students and parents.
Use appropriate data collection methods to assist student teachers to plan and reflect on their classroom practices and to develop a learning portfolio that responds to the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers.
Review the skills and understanding required to contribute to educational communities of practice within schools and in broader contexts.
Engage in critical reflection of their teaching practice with their peers through the exploration of the links between personal philosophy and practice. Subject Content 1. Teaching and Learning taking into account: the teaching and learning cycle, evolving curriculum contexts, student learning needs and the creation of positive learning environments over a longer term.
2. Australian Professional Standards for Teachers as benchmarks by which teachers are judged in their professional practice. Use of reflective evidence collection about personal teaching practices to begin the creation of a learning portfolio. 
3. Classroom Management as based on a study of Edwards and Watts “models of discipline” and the application of professional interpersonal relationships in creating positive learning environments. The place of an engaging and rigorous curriculum in managing challenging behaviours through utilising preventative and proactive approaches.
4. Synthesis of a variety of teaching strategies and assessment for, of and through learning to create plans for the professional experience context.  Based on observation in the professional experience context students will consider the use of particular strategies as are appropriate for their students’ learning needs.
5. Thoughtful use of Information Technologies in the implementation of teaching and learning plans. Extension of students’ personal productivity and the creation of learning resources for curriculum integration assessment and the development of an understanding of appropriate ethical use and critical evaluation of emerging technologies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 Words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2,500 Words 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)