Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7001 Advanced Health Classifications and Coding Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301178 Coordinator Cassie Rupnik Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to enable the student to classify diseases and interventions using the current version of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, Tenth Revision, Australian Modification, the Australian Classification of Health Interventions and the Australian Coding Standards (ICD-10-AM/ACHI/ACS). The subject will also include the historical development of clinical classification systems as well as the purpose and value of classifying diseases and interventions within the health system. The students will become familiar with the structure and content of ICD-10-AM ACHI/ACS and be introduced to the rules and conventions associated within ICD-10-AM/ACHI. Further, students will carry out research based analytical tasks gaining an in-depth knowledge in relation to health classification systems and terminology systems such as SNOMED-CT (Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine - Clinical Terms). School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Student must have a general knowledge in relation to healthcare systems. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: summarise the history and development of ICD-10-AM/ACHI/ACS
analytically represent the difference between a statistical classification and a nomenclature through independent research
correctly apply the principles and techniques of clinical classification to code diagnoses and interventions using ICD-10-AM/ACHI/ACS
identify and interpret diagnostic and therapeutic test results and accurately classify findings based on qualification from within the clinical record
analyse diagnostic and procedural statements, case studies and simple discharge summaries/clinical record reports to determine which clinical statements to abstract and classify
source further information to clarify complex clinical coding issues
explain the use of clinical classification systems in health care, describing their purpose and value Subject Content 1. The history and purpose of clinical classification
2. Application of classification systems in a healthcare setting and the relationship to the Electronic Health Record
3. Understanding the difference between Classification vs nomenclature (terminology) systems
4. Coding symptoms; diagnoses and interventions; factors influencing health status and contact with health services; external causes of morbidity; and sequencing and data abstracting techniques
5. Coding infectious diseases; neoplasms/morphology; blood and immunological disorders; mental and behavioural disorders; diseases of the nervous system; diseases of the eye and ear; respiratory diseases; digestive diseases; genitourinary disorders; and diseases of the skin and subcutaneous tissue Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 1 hr each 30 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hrs 40 Y Individual Y  Critical Review 3,000 words (5-6 pages) 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Cassie Rupnik Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Cassie Rupnik Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Health Informatics, Testamur Major (T007) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Public Health (PUBH)