Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 1015 Programming Fundamentals and Algorithmic Design (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window Description As a first subject in computer programming, this subject covers the basics of developing software with an emphasis on procedural programming. You will learn about basic data structures, the concept of algorithms, fundamental programming constructs, common programming language features and functions, program design and good programming style. The entry into programming is made more accessible by pairing a high-level programming language with a highly visual and interactive framework. On successful completion of this subject, you will be able to develop algorithms, design programs and solve programming problems. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Analyse a given problem and from a simple problem description, identify desired inputs, outputs and the necessary processing operations to convert input into output and code it.
Develop an algorithm that applies structured programming techniques that solve the given problem.
Choose suitable data types to store relevant data for the given problem.
Design and code programs which use standard programming concepts, variables, sequence, loops, decision-making constructs, functions, and mathematical operators including Boolean logic.
Apply top-down modular design principles to programming problems and implement the solution using the chosen programming language. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Part a) 300 words or equivalent. Part b) 500 words or equivalent 35 N Individual N  Case Study 1200 words or equivalent 35 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)