Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3002 Classroom Inquiry and improving professional practice Legacy Code 102138 Coordinator Shirley Gilbert Opens in new window Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 - Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe a range of practitioner research methods and classroom inquiry skills.
Identify KLAs where ICTs may be utilised for teaching and learning.
Locate, analyse and synthesise literature relevant to educational theories, curriculum topics and pedagogical issues.
Investigate and evaluate the role of ICT supported learning strategies across the primary curriculum.
Investigate and articulate their theories about learning with reference to the use of ICTs in educational contexts.
Design, plan and evaluate learning experiences based on the application of ICT related resources in a school setting Subject Content 1. What is the action research model? In what ways are teachers also researchers?
2. Reflect on the first school visit. Choose an area of teaching interest and write research questions and sub-questions.
3. What ICT teaching opportunities, action research opportunities and logistical requirements are available?
4. Writing a lit review APA referencing and avoiding plagiarism. Literature searching, plagiarism and referencing.
5. Plan the second school visit. What needs to be negotiated? Going in with a plan and negotiate teaching opportunities based on what ICTs are available.
6. What ways can common ICT resources be integrated into your teaching plans and research agendas?
7. Data collection and analysis methods. Ethical issues to be considered.
8. Planning for assessment and evaluation.
9. Organise teaching, data collection, analysis and interpretation of findings. Plan ahead for data collection analysis and writing of journal article. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1200 words 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual Y