Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 2007 PDHPE: Games for Diverse Groups Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400798 Coordinator Andrew Bennie Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on teaching and coaching young children in a range of Indigenous, striking/fielding, and target sports. The aim is to build on students' knowledge and application of various teaching /coaching styles with a focus on the game sense approach. In particular, the subject addresses issues of diversity and inclusion in school, sport, and recreation activities. As part of the subject, students will implement a teaching program in a local primary school and complete introductory coaching certificates in a variety of sports. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport and Recreation Activities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT2013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4659 - Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education), 4741 - Bachelor of Sport Development, 4742 - Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Pathway to Teaching, 4747 - Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate competency in inclusive teaching practices
Apply skill learning phases for diverse groups and demonstrate how these can be enhanced through traditional teaching practices and a games sense approach
Design, implement and evaluate teaching programs in a local school for a range of traditional Indigenous, striking and target games
Analyse the sociocultural factors that influence teaching, learning and participation in PE Subject Content 1. Theory that underpins the principles of traditional teaching practices and the game sense approach
2. Inclusive teaching for students with a range of abilities and from diverse backgrounds
3. Planning  PE/sport sessions for primary school contexts
4. Sociocultural factors that influence teaching, learning and participation in physical education and sport
5. Indigenous education and participation in sport Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special requirements relate to enrolment into some Subjects, usually those with placements or external activities (e.g., visiting schools). Both Games for Diverse Groups AND Coaching Sport and Rec have the following three special requirements. Working With Children Check - Apply for your WWCC here. Upload your WWCC here. Child Protection Course - Students must complete the TWO components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) on the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/  The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Further info can be found on vUWS. Upload your certificate here. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/enrolment/special_requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project  40 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes 20 N Individual N  Reflection 1500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Leisure for Diverse Groups, Minor (0253) Physical Activity and Health, Minor (0257) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)