Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7024 Forensic Medicine I Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301133 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3741 Master of Forensic Science, 3742 Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science or 3743 Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand the basic scientific, medical, ethical and legal principles that are relevant to the practice of forensic medicine.
Understand the essential techniques and methods used by forensic doctors and be able to discuss their validity, effectiveness and applicability within a professional setting.
Develop a sensitive awareness of how forensic medicine relates to bereaved relatives and other immediate contacts of a deceased person or victim of crime.
Develop and maintain the highest standards of professional integrity in all matters relating to the practice of forensic medicine and in the pursuit of justice.
Work towards improving the quality of forensic provision within his or her local medicolegal and criminal justice system.
Seek to initiate collaborative relationships with academics and other practitioners in order to contribute to research in the discipline.
Communicate sensitive information to other professional colleagues and, where necessary, be able to present evidence within a legal setting effectively and with accuracy and precision. Subject Content Module 1 Death
Module 2 Medicolegal Investigation of Death
Module 3 Sudden Natural Death in Adults
Module 4 The Autopsy
Module 5 Post-Mortem Interval
Module 6 Identification of the Dead
Module 7 Wounds of Medicolegal Importance I
Module 8 Wounds of Medicolegal Importance II
Module 9 Thermal Injury and Fire Deaths
Module 10 Suicide
Module 11 Head and Neck Injury
Module 12 Drowning by Immersion
Module 13 Asphyxia Related Deaths
Module 14 Case Study Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam not specified 100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 1 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Uni of Florida - Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Uni of Florida - Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)