Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7014 The Image of Thought: Art, Film and Philosophy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102584 Coordinator Alex Ling Opens in new window Description Working on the assumption that art is capable of exploring philosophical issues in its own right, the subject considers how various arts from poetry to contemporary film help shape our understanding of things like metaphysics, epistemology, ethics and morality. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a critical understanding of the relationship between art and philosophy;
Analyse and evaluate a broad range of artistic and philosophical texts;
Communicate the relevance of modern art and culture to a range of philosophical concepts and practices (and vice versa);
Develop and apply theoretical approaches and research practices to investigate philosophical problems. Subject Content The subject focuses on the ways in which art ? and in particular film and the visual arts ? impacts on philosophy. Examples of subject content include:
The Image of Thought: Art Before Philosophy
Lost in Translation: Letter or Image?
Aesthetics versus Inaesthetics
Being: One or Multiple?
Poetics and Epistemology
The Metaphysics of Film
Visualising Ethics and Morality
The Thought of Images: Art as Philosophy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Seminar presentation 5-10 min presentation and 500 word paper 15 N Individual   Minor essay 1,000 words 25 N Individual   Major (research) essay 3,000 words 60 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)