Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3077 Construction Project Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301229 Coordinator Wenchi Shou Opens in new window Description This subject is to give students an understanding of appropriate methods of managing construction projects and to develop skills in using these methods on the type of projects expected to undertake in their professional careers. It covers the major knowledge areas of project management theory as they relate to construction. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Project Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3060 Project Management
BUSM 3061 Project Management Assumed Knowledge An understanding of basic knowledge in building and construction. Learning Outcomes 1. Apply organisational behaviour theory to specific construction management projects
2. Manage a construction project to meet cost, time, scope and quality constraints
3. Assess and manage risk in a construction project
4. Establish and manage communication and procurement protocols in a construction project
5. Apply integration techniques and skills for project management Subject Content 1. Management and integration of scope, time and cost
2. Quality control
3. Risk management
4. Intra–project communication
5. Procurement and organisational behaviour.
6. Building Information Modelling application for Construction Project Management. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 quizzes, 30minutes for each attempt 20 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2000 words per student 40 N Group/Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Keivan Bamdad Masouleh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Wenchi Shou Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies (exit only) (3697) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Business and Management (BUSM) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045)