Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3005 Families and Sustainable Communities (Block Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101778 Coordinator Rashid Flewellen Jr Opens in new window Description This subject examines the concept of the family within different social and cultural contexts, with a particular focus on the place and significance of family and family relations in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities.  The subject explores the impacts of colonisation and displacement in contributing to family breakdown in Indigenous communities. It also identifies the challenges and issues in building family resources for sustainable communities. Models of good practice for intervention and resource building are examined through case studies. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Welfare Studies and Services, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 1006 AND
WELF 1009 AND
HUMN 1014 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed 40 credit points including the three pre-requisite subjects listed above. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse theories of the family and cultural understandings of families and communities
Demonstrate critical analysis of the impacts of colonisation and displacement in contributing to family breakdown in Indigenous communities
Identify examples of good practice for building sustainable families and communities
Critically engage with the challenges and issues in building family resources for sustainable communities Subject Content 1. Theories of the family
2. Cultural understandings of the family
3. Impact of colonisation and displacement on families and Indigenous communities
4. Families and sustainability ? issues and challenges
5. Families and sustainability strategies for building resources
6. Models of good practice with Indigenous families and communities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 Words 50 Y Individual   Critical Reflection 1,000 Words 50 Y Individual Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF)