Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3032 Humanitarian Design and Practice Credit Points 10 Description In this subject, students will learn community engagement strategies and prototype development using the framework of human-centered design. Through international and domestic mobility programs students will collaborate with local stakeholders to co-develop solutions for priority community needs. Drawing on inter-disciplinary approaches (combining social sciences, design and engineering), students will gain socio-technical skills and apply these to real-world humanitarian problems such as disaster preparedness and sustainable development. This subject is co-designed and delivered with industry partners (e.g. Engineers Without Borders, RedR) and will prepare students for career pathways working with regional and international industry agencies and local community partners in other countries to develop humanitarian engineering interventions. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1043 OR
ENGR 1024 Restrictions Students must complete a minimum of 140 credit points before enrolling in this subject Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Analyse the issues that affect sustainability in a design solution 
Identify failure and success indicators of projects addressing community needs 
Apply a systems approach towards the selection of socio-technical options for a given scenario 
Provide socio-technical recommendations for community needs with appropriate justification 
Apply collaborative skills in a team setting to address a socio-technical problem  
Professionally communicate methodology, analysis, and outcomes of a prototype idea/ development process in a range of different verbal and written formats Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2000 words (500 words per student)  And 10 minutes (presentation) 30 N Group N  Proposal 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Humanitarian Action in Practice, Minor (0327) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)