Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3096 What is the Human? Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101010 Coordinator Chris Fleming Opens in new window Description This subject examines theories of human nature from a variety of historical and disciplinary perspectives. It engages with, and encourages the student to evaluate, conceptions of the human - some of which have had wide currency in the broader culture and some which have not. The subject also engages the idea of whether a unified conception of human nature is tenable at all. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYC 1283 - What is the Human? Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate their familiarity with the most pervasive ideas of human nature in the western philosophical and anthropological traditions.
Recognise the complex and intricate links between concepts of human nature and epistemology, religion, ethics and art.
Be conversant with debates surrounding the idea of 'the human' and the very possibility of theorising at this level of generality. Subject Content 1. Classical and contemporary philosophies of human nature
2. Contemporary anthropology and cross-cultural studies
3. Perspectives on human nature from science, especially contemporary biology
4. Postmodern critiques of the possibility of the 'sciences of man'
5. Implications for ideas of human nature on epistemology, ethics, and art
6. The idea of the 'post-human' and technology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 30 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 1000-1300 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)