Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 3004 Dynamics of Mechanical Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300480 Coordinator Helen Wu Opens in new window Description This subject looks at how non-rigid components deform and oscillate.  It looks at undamped and damped systems undergoing free vibration, steady state forced vibration and transient forced vibration.  The principles of virtual work are used to investigate the equilibrium and dynamics of mechanisms. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MECH 2001 AND
MECH 2003 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5694 - Dynamics and Mechanical Systems Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use Virtual work to determine the equilibrium position of a mechanism.
Calculate the acceleration of a mechanism subjected to an applied force or torque.
Model a real world system as a collection of simple mechanical components.
Determine the equation(s) of motion for a system of simple mechanical components.
Solve the equation of motion for a free, 1dof system.
Calculate the response to a forced vibration.
Balance a rotating disk.
Use Laplace transforms to determine the response to impulse and step forces.
Take measurements in the real world, and use them to verify the theory presented in the lectures. Subject Content Virtual work, and the equilibrium position of a mechanism.
Acceleration of a mechanism subjected to an applied force or torque.
Modelling a real world system as a collection of simple mechanical components.
Determining the equation(s) of motion for a system of simple mechanical components.
Solution of the equations of motion for a free, 1dof system.
Calculation of the response to a forced vibration.
Balancing a rotating disk.
Using Laplace transforms to determine the response to impulse and step forces. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Tutorials weekly and 4 quizzes of 20 minutes each. 30 N Individual Y  Practical 3 hours x 2 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Helen Wu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Helen Wu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Helen Wu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Helen Wu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)