Academic Handbook Current Edition GEDU 0015 Tertiary Study Skills in Social Science (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 0 Legacy Code 700174 Coordinator Mona Shrestha Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to become successful independent reflective learners. It introduces students to a range of theories and concepts to facilitate the development of practical skills and personal attitudes necessary for success in tertiary study. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Learning Skills Programs Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate skills and knowledge about the theory and practise of what constitutes an successful independent reflective learner in tertiary education
Access and explore tertiary education and to make informed choices about the future direction of their education
Communicate ideas and information in a style appropriate to an academic setting
Use improved interpersonal skills to become effective group members and develop a peer support network
Locate and use appropriate educational technologies Subject Content 1. Online etiquette in an educational environment
2. Variety of tertiary learning strategies
3. WSTC Policies and Procedures
4. Higher education culture
5. Time management, managing conflicting priorities
6. Strategies for studying in your course
7. Factors influencing student success Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Creative Showcase
a. Oral Presentation and creative piece (20%)
b. Progress Report (5%) Oral presentation (5 minutes)
Progress Report – weekly from week 7. 20 N Individual   Learning Portfolio
a. Reflections (x2)
b. In-class tasks (x9) Week 2 and 12
Weekly from week 2-11 80 N Individual Structures that include subject General Education Programs (GEDU)