Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3018 Psychology and the Online World Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102350 Coordinator Mac Mingon Opens in new window Description Digital technologies and online environments have transformed how people interact, communicate, and organise. This subject explores the intersection of psychology and these ‘online worlds’, and critically examines the potential benefits and challenges it presents. Students will learn about a variety of online behaviours and environments, including the formation of social movements, the spread of moral panics and conspiracy theories, along with the potential of online therapy and psychological interventions. By the end of the subject, students will be able to understand and evaluate the psychological aspects of online activities and apply this knowledge to real-world situations. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1018 AND
BEHV 1016 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour, Bachelor of Psychology, Bachelor of Psychology (Honours), Bachelor of Social Science (Psychology) or Bachelor of Communication, Bachelor of Arts and Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts programs with a major in Psychological Studies. Students enrolled in the Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour must have successfully completed 70 credit points. Students enrolled in all other programs must have completed the two Level 1 pre-requisite subjects as stated above, as well as 30 credit points from the following Psychology Level 2 subjects: BEHV2002 Brain and Behaviour, MATH2006 Experimental Design and Analysis, BEHV2010 Perception, or BEHV2005 Human Learning. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify and evaluate the psychological aspects of online behaviours and social movements (Australian Psychological Accreditation Council - APAC Graduate Competency 1.1x). 2. Critically review the debates about the psychological aspects of online interactions in a range of contexts. (APAC Graduate Competency 1.6). 3. Distinguish between forms of online anonymity and be aware of the risks and benefits of anonymity (APAC Graduate Competency 1.6). 4. Analyse instances of risky or problematic forms of online conduct and identify of explanations of the psychological drivers of such conduct. (APAC Graduate Competency 1.1). 5. Describe the potential and scope of online platforms for delivering psychological services and interventions. (APAC Graduate Competency 1.2). 6. Explain how psychological approaches can inform online safety (APAC Graduate Competency 1.2). Subject Content 1. Introduction to Cyberpsychology 2. Online Environments 3. Online Learning and Motivation 4. Videogames for training and changing behaviour 5. Digital Addictions 6. Online relationships 7. Online therapy and support 8. Online Aggression 9. Online Racism and Prejudice 10. Online Communities 11. Online Protest 12. Conspiracy theories Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection Minimum of one log entry for four weeks, approximately 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 90 minutes 40 N Individual N The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2500 words 40 N Individual N  Reflection Approximately 300 words per log 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Mac Mingon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Tim Marsh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Tim Marsh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tim Marsh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology Extension, Minor (0186)