Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3041 Facilitation in Recreational Therapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401385 Coordinator Joanne Rodrigues Opens in new window Description This subject explores the facilitation of recreational therapy interventions, including processing and building rapport and trust with individuals and groups. Various recreational therapy modalities, and their application and benefits to achieving health outcomes will be explored and critiqued. This subject is designed to be hands-on and students will be tasked with facilitating a mock intervention for their peers. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) REHA 2014 Equivalent Subjects REHA 3035 - Therapeutic Recreation Professional Project Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of recreational therapy assessment, planning and evaluation processes. Learning Outcomes Apply and critique theories and principles of recreation therapy to develop therapeutic interventions;
Utilise recreation therapy frameworks in individual and group interventions;
Design and adapt recreational therapy activities and treatments to meet diverse needs;
Facilitate ethically sound and evidence-based recreational therapy interventions;
Demonstrates effective communication skills;
Assess the quality and effectiveness of recreational therapy facilitation practices. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Group N  Applied Project 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Practical 30 minutes 40 N Group/Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Joanne Rodrigues Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Nicole Peel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Nicole Peel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Health and Recreation, Minor (0243) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)