Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3009 Property Finance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200875 Coordinator Kamel Taoum Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to provide insight into property finance in Australia and overseas. Students critically review equity and debt financing and examine the financing alternatives available, as well as methods for evaluating these alternatives. Students also examine the impact of debt financing on a property and evaluate the taxation aspects of property transactions. In addition, students gain both a theoretical and an applied understanding of an after-tax cash flow projection in this subject. International property finance is also addressed. School Business Discipline Banking, Finance and Related Fields, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 6469 Property Finance and Tax FINC 3010 Property Finance and Tax Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students will have a sound knowledge of:
1. Valuation and financial mathematics
2. Concepts of discounted cash flow analysis and application
3. Statutory valuation legislation and procedures
4. Property portfolio analysis and property investment analysis and application Learning Outcomes Explain the financial environment of Australia.
Assess and develop optimal financing strategies for property investments.
Outline the factors that determine the impact of leverage upon returns from property investments and developments.
Assess the impact of taxation on potential outcomes from investments in property. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Property, Minor (0289) Property, Testamur Major (T047)