Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3059 Law, Literature and Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102416 Coordinator Christopher Conti Opens in new window Description This subject explores the value of literature to provide insight into the role of law in society. With special emphasis on the post-Mabo context of Australian culture, students will examine the law not just as a set of codified rules or as a legal system but as a cultural story that embraces an understanding of who we are and where we came from.  We view law not just as a set of rules but as a cultural story that defines our identity and roots. By analysing literary representations of legal notions such as justice, guilt, punishment, agency and confession, students will seek to understand the shared ground between literature and law, asking the thought-provoking question: "What can poets teach judges?" Through this exploration, students will enrich their understanding of both disciplines. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the culture of the rule of law and its impact on minority groups in Australia.
Investigate the intersection of law, sovereignty, narrative and race.
Analyse key legal concepts and practices (e.g. testimony, confession, crime, punishment, judgment, justice, human rights, etc) in the critical terms of their literary representation 
Critically examine the politics and aesthetics of literary/cinematic discourse on historical and environmental issues.
Evaluate and compare the literary representation of legal decisions and issues with selected case studies of legal and historic significance. Subject Content Topics include but are not limited to: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes + 800 words 15 N Group/Individual N  Participation In-class 5 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Christopher Conti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Christopher Conti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)