Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 1009 Professional Pathways in Health Science (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700075 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to professional issues, history and the philosophy in health sciences: health promotion, health service management and therapeutic recreation. Theories and key concepts of health promotion, health service management and therapeutic recreation are introduced. Students will be introduced to an understanding of human development and the health science processes. Students will examine how human growth and development influences development of socio-economic, cultural, gender, environmental, health science issues. Students will begin an electronic portfolio to help them take more control over their education and assist students to make connections with their learning experiences while building critical and reflective skills. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 1008 - Professional Pathways in Health Science PUBH 1004 - Foundations of Health Science LGYA 7157 - Foundations of Therapeutic Recreation Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify major factors and ideas which underpin health science as a health profession.
Examine the influence and relevance of early professional ideas on current concepts and practices in health science.
Examine the current concepts and practices in health science.
Explore and critique health science concepts such as a wholistic approach; recreation and leisure; and current health practice and health promotion and service management practices.
Demonstrate an understanding of models of service delivery such as special recreation; activity therapy; health protection or health promotion; and health management.
Encourage students to take control over their learning through the use of an electronic portfolio while building critical, analytical and reflective skills. Subject Content 1. Central concepts of health science.
2. Overview of the process of health science.
3. Health science and models of service delivery.
4. Health science and therapeutic processes.
5. Health science services provided in Australia: What are the current services?
6. Professional ethics, regulations and competencies.
7. Conceptual issues for guiding practice in health science.
8. Perspectives of past and contemporary health science practice.
9. Perspectives on professional issues and status.
10. Health science and the professions.
11. Emerging professions in health sciences.
12. Use and management of electronic portfolio.
13. Communication and interdisciplinary teams.
14. Patients/clients/consumers/customers/communities. Who do we serve? What is our professional group? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    E-Portfolio Part A (15%)
Part B (15%) 30 N Individual   Workplace or project learning report 1500 words 35 N Individual   Ptresentation 6 - 7 minutes 20 N Individual   Quiz 1 hour (20 questions) 15 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)