Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1037 Digital Narrative Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102827 Coordinator Vincent Tay Opens in new window Description Effective storytelling is at the heart of engaging content. In this unit, you'll learn the basic principles of fictional, narrative storytelling used in screen media. Following on from Screen Media Fundamentals, you'll learn more advanced principles of screen media production, including genre, visual storytelling, camera coverage, lighting, visual style, editing, sound design and performance. You'll also develop an awareness of key narrative concepts such as narrative form, structure, conflict and basic scriptwriting techniques. You'll plan and create a short narrative screen media work, which will demonstrate your enhanced storytelling and production skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic and Design Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 1041 Incompatible Subjects COMM 2036 - Screen and Sound Practices 2 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Express the key concepts of fictional, narrative storytelling.
Establish a sound understanding of the aesthetics and narrative strategies of the short film format.
Write a compelling short fiction script in a standard industry format.
Showcase effective knowledge and technical skills in camera, sound recording, editing and sound design.
Identify the key crew roles in producing a short film: Director, Producer, Cinematographer, Sound Designer, Production Designer, Editor, Writer.
Plan and produce a short screen media work.
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge in the analysis and content creation and reflective creative practice.
Assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Concepts and practices in fictional narrative storytelling.
Scriptwriting techniques and conventions.
Advanced production techniques in camera, lighting, editing and sound design.
Directing camera coverage and performance.
Short narrative screen media production.
Online content production and publishing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual N  Proposal 1,500 words equivalent  30 N Individual N  Applied Project Less than 2 minutes 40 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words or equivalent. 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vincent Tay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268)