Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2056 The Racial State Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101990 Coordinator Alana Lentin Opens in new window Description Racism is often thought of as both primordial and pathological. Racist states, such as Apartheid South Africa or Nazi Germany, are usually considered to be exceptions rather than the rule and mainly a thing of the past. This subject examines the ways in which, despite the challenge to racism, race remains a fundamental organising idea in modern western states, one that has a direct affect on our everyday realities. We will examine how race is reproduced through politics, culture, socialisation and economic structures. We will consider the effects this has on individual and societal lived experience in complex post-immigration, postcolonial societies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 2063 - New Ethnicities Old Racisms Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the relationship between concepts of race and racism, state power and individual experience.
Apply key theoretical analyses to their understanding of race as 'lived experience'.
Critically evaluate the relationship between institutional apparatuses and public cultures within which racist ideas are expressed.
Present ideas in a clear and well-constructed manner through seminar discussions and debates.
Work interactively using online methods of communication to plan projects and get feedback from student peers
Work collaboratively in the design and conduct of a small-scale research project. Subject Content 1. Introduction: Race and power
2. Race, racialisation and experience
3. Whiteness, white possession and white supremacy
4. Whose Country? Race and the colonial experience
5. Mobility and Change
6. Institutional and systemic racism
7. State and Popular racism: Islamophobia
8. 'Policing the Crisis'
9. Abolitionist Visions
10. Race, digital technology and social media Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 200 words 10 N Individual N  Poster 500 words 40 N Individual N  Short Answer 500 words 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts No Prescribed Text Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)