Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7074 Mathematics for Contemporary Learners Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102321 Coordinator Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window Description In this subject students will explore issues relating to the teaching and learning of mathematics in the contemporary primary classroom. These issues will include promoting positive dispositions of learners, engaging pedagogies and developing creative and critical thinking for critical numeracy. Students will explore theory relating to the integration of information and communication technologies in the mathematics classroom including the development of teachers' Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK). School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1809 Graduate Certificate in Primary Mathematics or 1830 Graduate Certificate in Primary Mathematics Education or 1911 Master of Education Assumed Knowledge Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the importance of promoting positive dispositions towards mathematics amongst teachers and students
Locate a range of mathematical pedagogical practices to engage primary students with mathematics
Demonstrate how the use of rich tasks can promote critical and creative thinking in the primary mathematics classroom
Apply the Substitution, Augmentation, Modification and Redefinition (SAMR) model of technology integration to a range of technology-based mathematics activities
Analyse a range of digital resources in relation to their ability to enhance the understanding of mathematical concepts
Assess a range of digital resources in relation to their alignment with the NSW K-10 Mathematics Syllabus Subject Content 1. Issues relating to disposition towards mathematics
2. Engaging teachers and students with mathematics
3. Critical and creative thinking in the mathematics classroom
4. Developing students?f critical numeracy
5. Exploring the Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK) framework
6. Supporting the integration of technology into primary mathematics teaching and learning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2500 words 50 N Individual Y  Essay 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Primary Mathematics Education (1830) Mathematics Education, Testamur Major (T138) STEM, Testamur Major (T135) Teacher Education (TEAC)