Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7015 Theoretical Philosophy Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102615 Coordinator Dennis Schmidt Opens in new window Description Theoretical Philosophy focuses on theories of knowledge, theories of being, and systems of thought. While it is traditionally described under the heading of epistemology and metaphysics, theoretical philosophy should be more broadly understood as devoted to philosophical investigations into the underlying systems, theories, and presuppositions upon which any account of the world, experience, or even truth has been built. This subject will be devoted to an explication of either thematically related theoretical investigations, such as, for example, '17th-century theories of matter,' or 'the nature of language,' or it will focus instead on one central philosophical figure, e.g., 'Plato's metaphysics of the soul,' 'Kant's system of transcendental idealism,' etc. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify major philosophical approaches to theoretical philosophy.
Analyse primary texts devoted to theoretical philosophy.
Apply basic philosophical analyses to specific questions regarding the nature of reality. Subject Content Theories of truth
Theories of being
Theories of human nature
Theories of the soul and the existence of God
Theories of material being
Theories of language Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio - 4 short responses to questions 2000 words in total (500 words each) 35 N Individual   Essay - 1 research essay 4,000 words 65 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)