Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7002 Addressing Diversity in Mathematics Teaching and Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102322 Coordinator Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window Description In this subject students will apply their knowledge of curriculum and pedagogy to address diversity within the primary mathematics classroom. Students will explore strategies to address a broad range of learning needs incorporating gifted and talented students, students from diverse cultural backgrounds including Aboriginal students and students with additional needs including dyscalculia. Other issues such as gender and mathematics for English as an Additional Language Learners (EALD) will be investigated. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1682 Master of Special Education; 1720 Master of Inclusive Education; 1830 Graduate Certificate in Primary Mathematics Education; 1847 Master of Education (STEM) or 1911 Master of Education. Assumed Knowledge Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain how concepts located within the primary mathematics curriculum are inter-connected
Apply contemporary research relating to students considered mathematically gifted and talented to primary mathematics pedagogy
Summarise issues relating to Aboriginal children and the teaching and learning of mathematics
Demonstrate an understanding of pedagogies that promote differentiation in the primary mathematics classroom
Identify the implications of specific issues relating to diversity for primary mathematics teaching and learning
Design a range of inclusive mathematical tasks/activities Subject Content 1. Identifying the big ideas within the primary mathematics curriculum
2. Teaching mathematics to children who are gifted and talented
3. Teaching mathematics to a variety of cultures including Aboriginal students
4. Gender issues in primary mathematics education
5. Primary mathematics and English language learners (ELL)
6. Differentiation in mathematics
7. Problem solving for differentiation
8. Programming and planning for students with additional needs in relation to mathematics and numeracy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2500 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2500 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Primary Mathematics Education (1830) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Mathematics Education, Testamur Major (T138) STEM, Testamur Major (T135) Teacher Education (TEAC)