Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7066 Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401446 Coordinator Reshin Maharaj Opens in new window Description Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions utilises an evidence-based approach to develop an understanding of pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and nursing care for patients who experience acute exacerbations of chronic conditions. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 7071 - Introduction to alterations in health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the causes, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic procedures related to acute exacerbations of chronic conditions.
Critically analyse the implications and reflect on nursing practice across the lifespan when providing person- centred care for those experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition.
Incorporate the Safety and Quality Health Service Standards to justify the selection and prioritisation of nursing strategies to provide safe effective evidence-based nursing care for a person experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition.
Evaluate appropriate, safe, effective, and evidence-based treatments for a person experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition Subject Content 1. Knowledge and application of the following concepts to inform professional nursing practice related to acute exacerbations of chronic conditions affecting the cardiovascular, renal, musculoskeletal and respiratory systems: 2. Diagnosis Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 60 minutes 40 Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Reshin Maharaj Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Reshin Maharaj Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)