Academic Handbook Current Edition PHYS 1004 Physics 1 (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700035 Coordinator Phillip Newman Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to physics for science and medical science students as well as providing a basis for further study of more advanced physics for students pursuing courses in nanotechnology, chemical, physical and mathematical sciences. It provides a foundation to understand the physical principles which underlay scientific instrumentation and analysis. Topics covered include systems of units; Introductory mechanics, Newton's laws, work, conservation of energy and momentum; Electricity, electrostatics, DC and AC circuits and components, introductory electromagnetism; Waves and optics, electromagnetic radiation, reflection, refraction, image formation, polarisation, interference and diffraction. School Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 3630 - Engineering Physics PHYS 1001 - Physics 1 LGYA 5727 - Physics 1D PHYS 1003 - Physics 1 PHYS 1002 - Physics 1 Assumed Knowledge HSC Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Analyse the description of a physical problem, for the topics listed in the contents, and apply a frame of reference or other appropriate mathematical framework to the problem.
Explain the physical principles by writing down appropriate equations or other mathematical models such as a geometrical construct to produce a mathematical model of the physical problem.
Identify known and unknown variables in a mathematical model of a physical problem and manipulate the model to predict unknown.
Interpret results of calculations in terms of real physical world events.
Record, present and analyse experimental data.
Estimate the errors in a measurement and propagate the effects of these errors through simple calculations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 400 words each 20 N Individual   Quizzes x 4 30 minutes each 40 N Individual   Intra-session Exam (Data Analysis Lab Test) 80 minutes 10 N Individual   Final Examination 2 hours 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Diploma in Science Fast Track (7009) Physics and Astronomy (PHYS)