Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 5003 Perinatal, Infant and Child Mental Health Credit Points 10 Coordinator Rachel Gregory-Wilson Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to explore the complex issues related to Perinatal, Infant and Child mental health including: the importance of the parent infant relationship to maternal and infant mental health, antenatal and postnatal depression and anxiety, substance misuse and domestic violence. Through examination of these complex issues, students will gain knowledge of the risk and protective factors that influence outcomes for infants, children and families. Strategies to promote emotional wellbeing, positive parent- child relationships and social support for these families is an essential learning component supported by the concepts of targeted and specialist intervention, and early intervention.  The knowledge gained in this subject will be consolidated through virtual clinical placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mothercraft Nursing and Family and Child Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 7055 - Perinatal Infant and Child Mental Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4713 Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane), 4714 Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) or 4715 Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane). Assumed Knowledge Fundamental concepts of mental health at undergraduate degree level. An understanding of professional frameworks and competencies for the Registered Nurse or Registered Midwife at a undergraduate level, augment with clinical experience at a general Registered Nurse or Registered Midwife level. Learning Outcomes 1. Comment on the importance of positive parent child relationships on emotional development as a predictor of child development.
2. Develop care plans in partnerships with parents, addressing identified risk and protective factors that influence global outcomes for children and their families including intergenerational issues using a social ecological model. 
3.  Detect the risk factors and signs of anxiety and depression in childhood that impact on developmental outcomes for children.  
4. Review the impact of perinatal depression and anxiety on the infant-parent relationship and analyse the management and treatment of perinatal mood disorders.
5. Hypothesize the impact of domestic/family violence and substance misuse on the health and well-being of women, children and families and identify strategies to support families. Subject Content 1. Parent – infant relationship and introduction to attachment theory
2. Emotional development
3. Transition to parenthood and parenting styles
4. Psychosocial assessment
5. Perinatal Mental Disorder (PMD) management
6. Risk and protective factors affecting mental wellbeing
7. Interventions to support families Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 10 minute recording (20%) / 1,500  words (40%) 60 N Individual N  Essay 1,500  words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 20 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Rachel Gregory-Wilson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4715) Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Nursing (NURS)