Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7026 Data Engineering Fundamentals Credit Points 10 Description Data Engineers design systems that gather, store and present data for critical decision-making and further analysis. While there are several software tools to set up data systems, the dynamic nature of the data landscape necessitates that Data Engineers possess an in-depth understanding of fundamental concepts and agile processes. In this subject, students will acquire a foundational understanding of key data engineering concepts, enabling them to design and construct robust data systems. Every facet of the data engineering lifecycle will be meticulously explored, providing students with hands-on exposure to state of the art data software systems. Additionally, students will delve into essential topics such as data security, ethics, and data ownership. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 7024 Assumed Knowledge Basic programming knowledge is required. Learning Outcomes Set-up appropriate software for the ingestion of data.
Compute and allocate appropriate storage for data.
Write scripts to query and transform data.
Provide appropriate interfaces for data access.
Identify ethical and security issues of storing and accessing data. Subject Content Data Engineering Foundations Data Engineering Lifecycle Data Governance Future of Data Engineering Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes (per Quiz) 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3 weeks 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Master of Data Engineering (3802)