Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1030 Science and Engineering in Early Childhood Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102667 Coordinator Sheridan Hewson Opens in new window Description This subject will develop students’ critical and meaningful understanding of the way in which engineering, science and technology shape our lives and the world we live in. It will extend students' understanding of how engineering, science and technology integrate and impact on each other and how they can be promoted in creative and meaningful ways in the learning environment. This subject will foster a positive disposition in students towards teaching and applying engineering, science and technology in diverse and multi-dimensional educational settings for children aged birth to 5 years. It will focus on investigation, critical thinking and problem solving as they relate to young children’s learning processes. The subject will engage with relevant pedagogical approaches and the Early Years Learning Framework principles, practices and learning outcomes. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes Investigate the key concepts of science, technology and engineering in society and in everyday applications.
Explain the relationships between science, technology and engineering and the processes of investigation, critical thinking and problem solving.
Examine the different theoretical and pedagogical approaches relevant to science, technology, engineering teaching and learning for birth to 5 years.
Apply the principles, practices and outcomes of The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia to investigate the relationships between science, technology and engineering and play based pedagogies. 
Propose learning experiences that integrate science, technology and engineering concepts, processes and language.
Discuss issues of diversity and equity in STEM and strategies to support the learning needs of diverse students. Subject Content Key concepts of science, technology and engineering in society and in everyday applications
Science, Technology, Engineering for Birth - 5 years
Processes of investigation, exploration and problem solving
Theory and approaches for teaching science, technology and engineering for children Birth-5 Years
Use of the Early Years Learning Framework principles, practices and learning outcomes to investigate the relationships between science, technology and engineering and play based pedagogies 
Issues of diversity and equity in STEM – addressing the needs of diverse students Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 Questions 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 1500 Words 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1500 Words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sheridan Hewson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)