Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3003 Community Engaged Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102526 Coordinator Renu Narchal Opens in new window Description Community Engaged Learning offers students an opportunity to directly engage with communities (government, non-profits, industry) through hands-on experiences off-site from the university, including potential overseas opportunities where available. This block-mode subject fosters leadership and social responsibility through teamwork and real-world application of knowledge. It requires 60 hours of community engagement, 15 hours of workshops, and online academic support. Mandatory orientation, briefings, and debriefings are included. A Police Clearance is required before placement. School Psychology Discipline Welfare Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Utilise strategies for effective engagement with community partners and knowledge of ethical and professional conduct in various community settings. (APAC Foundational Competencies 1.2, 1.3, 1.5) 2. Critically review community engaged learning in relation to service-learning theory in addressing issues faced by community organisations. (APAC Foundational Competencies 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.6) 3. Engage and evaluate in community programs. (APAC Foundational Competencies 1.2, 1.3, 1.5, 1.6) 4. Apply knowledge and theory to real-world situations/issues that concern community organisations. (APAC Foundational Competencies 1.2, 1.3, 1.5) 5. Employ sensitivity toward cultural and social diversity and its impact on social capital. (APAC Foundational Competencies 1.2, 1.4, 1.5) 6. Reflect on their own cultural perspectives and that of other cultures in relation to the community engaged learning, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, and various vulnerable groups. (APAC Foundational Competencies 1.2, 1.4, 1.6) Subject Content 1. Introduction to community engaged learning 2. Community concerns surrounding public sector agencies and non-profit community organisations 3. Effective communication and interpersonal skills 4. Effective and logical problem solving, and creative thinking 4. Strategies and skills for service delivery and advocacy 6. Research and collaborative service provision in public sector and non-profit community agencies 7. Leadership and advocacy toward social responsibility and analytical skills for effective intervention 8. Cross-cultural and social diversity in heritage needs/cultural perspectives 9. Lifelong learning through personal engagement with public sector and non-profit community agencies Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites • Students must have completed a Student Undertaking.
• The legislative requirements depend on the program and/ or placement.  For example, working with children check and or criminal record check. Students will be notified about the requirements. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,200 words 20 N Individual N  Reflection 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 40 N Group N  Professional Placement Performance 60 hours (approximately 5 hours per week over 12 weeks in the semester) S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)