Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2051 Writing and Reading Sci-Fi and Fantasy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102772 Coordinator Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window Description This subject covers the basic creative writing techniques for 'worldbuilding' in the genres of science fiction and fantasy. Through guided reading and writing you'll explore what happens when ordinary human predicaments are deepened and complicated when represented as happening in a world not our own: one with different physical laws, belief systems, technologies and cultural practices. In a workshopping environment, you will build outward from a 'story-bud' about an alternative or alien world to explore the logic of that world and its implications for the creation of believable characters, setting, action and - overall - the development of a successful story. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects LANG 3090 - Writing and Reading Sci Fi and Fantasy Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge Good standard of written English expression. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the characteristics of science fiction and fantasy fiction.
Apply the techniques of world-building to flesh out story ideas.
Effectively utilise face-to-face and online workshop environments for the brainstorming of ideas and the troubleshooting of work in progress.
Critically assess works of published Science Fiction and Fantasy to identify the logic of world-building.
Demonstrate competence in writing coherent and credible fantasy or science fiction.
Identify the qualities of effective writing; and
Demonstrate those qualities in their own writing. Subject Content Genre reading for writing technique.
The story-bud: graft from an existing stock or invent something wholly new?
Consequential logic and the rules of invention: 'if this is so, then what...'
Cosmologies: world-building beliefs.
Science and Physics: how much do you need to know?
Future technologies and savage worlds: what kind of detail do I need?
Writing the credible incredible setting. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 3 x 300 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Participation Weeks 1 - 14 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)