Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3015 Health Variations 4 - Acute Life Threatening Conditions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401211 Coordinator Gladis Kabil Opens in new window Description Health Variations 4 - Acute Life-Threatening Conditions utilises an evidence base to develop an understanding of the pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and nursing care for people across the lifespan who experience acute life-threatening conditions. An important area of focus is detecting and recognising acute deterioration and escalating care. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 2016 - Health Variations 3 - Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions Restrictions Must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the causes, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic procedures concerning acute life-threatening conditions.
Apply the National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards to justify the selection and prioritisation of nursing strategies to provide safe effective evidence-based nursing care for people who experience an acute life-threatening condition.
Assess appropriate, safe, effective, and evidence-based treatments for people who experience an acute life-threatening condition.
Collaborate effectively when detecting and recognising acute deterioration, and escalating care. Subject Content Knowledge and application of the following concepts to inform professional nursing practice related to acute life-threatening and/or traumatic complex health conditions utilising both critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Discuss the importance of the National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards
Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice
Recognition of deteriorating patient using DETECT framework
Management of the deteriorating patient
Primary and secondary survey for trauma injury management including burns
Sudden unexpected death
Ethico-legal responsibilities
Pathophysiology
Pharmacology
Diagnostic procedures
Management of acute life- threatening conditions
Nursing management Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 40 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 15 minutes  30 N Group Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 2 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 15 minutes 30 N Group Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Gladis Kabil Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Gladis Kabil Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Gladis Kabil Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Gladis Kabil Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gladis Kabil Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Gladis Kabil Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Fleur Vanderheld Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)