Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3021 Professional Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300053 Coordinator Linna Geng Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on ethical conduct for construction managers and on the range of procurement systems utilised in the modern construction industry. It deals with matters of professional responsibility to the community, as well as, honourable and lawful practices in the conduct of business. The issues of confidentiality of information and conflict of interest are examined in the context of real project histories. Risk management and its relationship with quality project delivery are considered in the light of the changing nature of an industrialised, digitalised and globalised construction industry. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1029 OR
ENGR 1024 OR
ENGR 1036 Assumed Knowledge Some experience with the range of employment opportunities that are available in the Australian construction industry. Learning Outcomes Identify ethical behavioural requirements of a construction professional in relation to codes of conduct of relevant professional associations
Research and evaluate the options available in response to an ethical dilemma on a construction project
Describe the most common types of procurement options in use in the modern construction industry and compare their advantages and disadvantages
Prioritise risk management strategies on a construction project
Reflect on the future direction of the construction industry both in Australia and globally Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words 25 N Individual N  Report 2800 words 45 N Individual Y  Report 4000 words and 15 minutes 30 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Linna Geng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Linna Geng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Online Subject Contact Linna Geng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Building Surveying, Testamur Major (T088) Building, Testamur Major (T149) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Quantity Surveying, Testamur Major (T087)