Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 4015 Building Design Project (Construction Certificate) Credit Points 20 Coordinator Mary Hardie Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will continue to develop the design solution they created in Building Design Project 1 (Honours) into a fully resolved CAD model suitable for costing, scheduling and contracting. Students apply technical and critical thinking skills to address the project constraints, and present project documentation (site plans, floor plans, elevations, sections, details and specifications) of a quality suitable to apply for a Construction Certificate. Complex constraints relating to buildability and efficient project delivery will be resolved. Strict budgetary constraints will be imposed and students will be expected to demonstrate a capacity to use lateral thinking and generate creative solutions in response to problematic situations which arise during project delivery but which were unknown at project commencement. Knowledge gained in this subject will benefit students aspiring to roles in the integrated building design industry and the delivery of building design solutions. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Co-requisite(s) BLDG 4014 - Building Design Project (Development Application)
OR
BLDG 4014 - Building Design Project 1 (Honours)
OR
CIVL 4018 - Building Design Project 1 (Honours) Equivalent Subjects CIVL 4019 - Building Design Project 2 (Honours)
OR
BLDG 4015 - Building Design Project 2 (Honours) Incompatible Subjects BLDG 4002 - Building Design Project 2 (non-honours stream) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3727 Bachelor of Building Design Management or 3801 Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours). Students must have successfully completed 220 credit points Assumed Knowledge Expertise in CAD, iterative design process and construction technology. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Recommend the appropriate construction systems, materials, finishes and performance standards expected in the completed building project.
Resolve the details of footings/floor/wall and floor/roof junctions and illustrate these with detail drawings to a professional standard.
Construct a fully detailed 3D CAD model with sufficient information for pricing and technical assessment.
Present design management choices in 2D views drawn from a professional 3D CAD model.
Resolve budgetary conflicts, construction safety issues and environmental impacts of construction using innovative design management solutions.
Reflect on feedback and extensive research to argue persuasively and justify design solutions. Subject Content Construction Certificate approval
Complex and high-rise development Complex services integration and clash detection
Proactive response to stakeholder feedback
Conflict resolution Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2000 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 3D CAD model presented as 12-16 compiled drawings including large scale (1:10 or 1:20) detail drawings of critical joints 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 3D CAD model presented as 18-22 compiled drawings including building services, sustainability, and 3D renderings 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1000 words 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mary Hardie Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Building (BLDG)