Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 1013 Marketing Enterprises (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description Marketing Enterprises is an ideal introduction to understanding consumer behaviour, preferences, and trends. It is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of integrated marketing strategies in various environments using real-world case studies and practices. Marketing Enterprises is a fundamental subject for marketing majors and offers a general overview for those who wish to design, develop, manage, and maintain consumer information. Marketing students can explore various career opportunities, such as marketing managers, analysts, digital marketing specialists, and advertising executives. In today's world, where businesses face unprecedented challenges and opportunities, a solid foundation in marketing is essential for success. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Describe the significance of customer relationships in a marketing context. 
Apply a customer driven marketing strategy to a case situation.
Discuss ideas on a broad range of marketing trends and data privacy.  
Explain how marketing contributes to the achievement of the organisation's objectives. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 300 words 15 N Individual N  Professional Task 750 words 35 N Individual N  Poster 350 words 20 N Individual N  Viva Voce 5 min 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)