Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7043 Engaging Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102148 Coordinator Erin Mackenzie Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. Community engagement is variously seen as a strategy for improving educational outcomes, increasing community ownership and/or empowering citizens to take collective action. Although appeals to ‘community’ often assume a homogeneous ideal, active community engagement needs to respond to a diversity of needs and experiences. This subject begins by exploring the notion of community, its uses and meanings in different discursive and professional contexts. Students will be introduced to theory and praxis aimed at identifying community needs, partnering across diversity and working effectively and inclusively to build community strengths and engagement. The subject’s applied learning focus requires students to develop and implement a community engagement strategy for a selected setting. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program, with the exception of those students enrolled in the 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate notions of community and community engagement
Audit a community’s membership, strengths and assets
Analyse community profile data to determine needs
Respond to a diversity of community needs and interests
Develop a community engagement strategy
Evaluate various forms of feedback and develop recommendations to enhance engagement Subject Content Notions of ‘community’ - ideals and realities
Diversity within and between communities – strengths and tensions
Sites and contexts for community engagement
Engagement – purpose, process and dilemmas
Mapping community
Skills and strategies for working with community
Critical competencies for cross-cultural engagement
Establishing and maintaining effective partnerships
Building inclusive communities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study - Community Mapping & Initial Engagement Strategy 1,500 words 40 N Individual   Report - Report on Design and Implementation of Community Engagement Strategy 4.000 words 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)