Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 3009 Ethical Traditions in Islam Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101466 Coordinator Jan Ali Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the rich heritage of ethical traditions in Islamic thought. Students will study and critically evaluate the key features and contributions of Muslim theologians, philosophers and Sufis, who attempted to deal with revelation and rationalistic discourse in exploring the meaning of ethical life for Muslims and discussing whether philosophy and religious wisdoms were equals and allies in the pursuit of happiness. The origin and development of these traditions will be introduced with an emphasis on the relevance and application of some ethical issues, such as free will, predestination, human responsibility, and bioethics, to contemporary Muslim societies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 1047 OR
LANG 2017 Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the key features, methods and contributions of Muslim theologians, philosophers and Sufis in dealing with ethics
Discuss the development of ethical traditions in Islam
Critically examine the relevance and application of ethical ideas and issues such as free will, predestination, human responsibility, and bioethics to contemporary Muslim societies. Subject Content This subject introduces students to the rich heritage of ethical traditions in Islamic thought. Students will have the opportunity to study and critically evaluate the key features and contributions of Muslim theologians, philosophers and Sufis. The students will learn the relevance and application of some ethical issues, such as free will, predestination, human responsibility, and bioethics to contemporary Muslim societies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Essay 750 words 30 N Individual N  Literature Review 750 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)