Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2014 Civil Society in Contemporary China Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101968 Coordinator Edmund Fung Opens in new window Description This subject is intended to give students an understanding of the social development of the People's Republic of China (PRC). It will engage with some of the key concepts that scholars have utilised to understand social changes. In this vein, the subject will consider China's socio-political transformation from a civil society perspective. It will consider a range of stakeholders - from non-governmental organisations to trade associations - and examine the events that have contributed to the development of China's civil society. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explain the conception of civil society and its utility in understanding China's social and political development
critically assess the emergence of new social stakeholders in China and their impact on civil society
assess the Chinese state's response to civil society stakeholders
evaluate the future of China's civil society and its potential in affecting socio-political change
use social science methods to construct future research. Subject Content . Conceptions of civil society
. Conceptions of Chinese civil society
. Social changes in China since 1978
. State-society relations in China
. Key domestic social stakeholders, including non-governmental organisations
. Emergence of voluntarism
. Role of transnational actors in Chinese civil society
. Role of the state in Chinese civil society
. Future social and political developments in China Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) International Relations and Asian Studies, Major (0019) International Relations and Asian Studies, Minor (0019) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)