Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2008 Arabic 204 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102022 Coordinator Sawsan Amara Opens in new window Description This is an intermediate subject in the Arabic major or minor. It provides an extension and consolidation of reading comprehension, and writing skills, as well as lexical enrichment in Modern Standard Arabic, particularly its range of written registers and their linguistic characteristics. The content for reading and writing activities will be selected from newspapers, magazines, short stories and other printed media. NOTE: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or minor in Arabic must enrol in Arabic 203 at the same time.  Students with a background of study in the language may need to take higher level subjects. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Program Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their appropriate level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2053 - Language and Communication Skills 2B Arabic Assumed Knowledge Arabic 201/202 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of a variety of texts;
Write appropriately on a wide range of topics and in different genres;
Identify the textual characteristics of a range of text-types;
Carry out basic stylistic analysis of a range of text-types. Subject Content Overview of text-types to be studied in the subject and their lexical and grammatical characteristics.
Reading and comprehension of different text-types.
Basic analysis of text types with reference to lexical and structural characteristics.
Writing of different text-types (e.g. letters, resumes, reports, essays, creative writing, short stories, etc.). Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour each 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,000-1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Sawsan Amara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Language and Literature (LANG)