Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 1003 Introduction to Paramedicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401066 Coordinator Rachael Vella Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the paramedic profession and its scope of practice in Australia. It includes exploration of the roles and responsibilities of paramedics in the context of the changing health environment. Ethical issues and relevant legal and regulatory requirements will also be discussed. Students will be introduced to the key concepts of paramedicine and to the complexity of normal development and its relationship to the processes of health science. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe paramedicine with respect to its purpose, role and contribution to health care
Apply basic communication skills to communicate effectively with the client, peers and academic staff and prepare reports
Employ critical reflection skills in paramedic contexts
Practice paramedicine in a safe and ethical manner
Describe the regulatory requirements for paramedicine in Australia and apply them to case scenarios
Analyse case scenarios for typical paramedic interventions Subject Content 1. The scope and practice of pre-hospital care and paramedicine
2. The roles and responsibilities of paramedics
3. The history, culture, organisational structure, policies and procedures of Ambulance Services
4. Communication and reporting in paramedicine and related competencies
5. Critical reflection in paramedicine
6. Groups served by paramedics and their special needs
7. Ethics and regulatory requirements in paramedicine
8. Future directions for paramedicine Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1 x 400 words (10%) 1 x 600 words (20%) 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 mins 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)