Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4006 Nursing Honours Thesis (Part-time) Credit Points 60 Legacy Code 400204 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description Nursing Honours Thesis Part-Time is a 60 Credit Point multi-term subject (MTS) taken over 18 months comprising three (3) half - Year Terms, with each term having a value of 20 credit points. The first two half year sessions are continuing MTS terms to the third and final half year term in which the written thesis is due to be submitted and examined.  The subject provides an opportunity for students, under the guidance of their supervisors to plan and implement a research project related to nursing which results in the production of a written Honours thesis of 15,000-20,000 words in length, which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level or equivalent is required. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate a health or nursing related issue or problem in depth through a review of the literature;
Identify a researchable question related to a health or nursing issue or problem;
Develop a research proposal;
Obtain formal approvals for research, e.g. ethical approval, where required;
Perform data collection and data analysis relevant to the research proposal;
Contribute to discussions about the research process with professional colleagues;
Produce a thesis of the prescribed length and format which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions. Subject Content Students are required to engage in scholarly work consistent with the expectation of an Honours program. Completion of an Honours degree requires the ability to be able to complete the compulsory significant research component, namely a written honours thesis of 15,000-20,000 words within a set time frame. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 20,000 words 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (Honours) (4529) Nursing (NURS)