Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1043 Information and Communications Technologies for Teaching and Learning Credit Points 10 Coordinator Nathan Berger Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce, develop and apply innovative digital literacy skills needed to be successful in the teaching profession. The subject will address digital literacy as a multidimensional skill-set covering domains related to: i) searching, accessing, analysing, and critically evaluating information; ii) communicating and sharing information; iii) creating digital products; iv) safety, and v) problem-solving. The subject will focus on the digital learner, instructional design in digital contexts, e-safety, social media, intellectual property, and legal implications of ICT for teachers. The subject develops the critical digital literacy skills for teachers as determined by the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary). Assumed Knowledge Basic computer proficiency. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Articulate the relevant issues of a digital and globalised world and effective strategies to support the sustainable, safe, responsible, and ethical use of ICT in learning and teaching.
Apply instructional design and multimedia principles to expand curriculum learning opportunities for students.
Evaluate, retrieve, manipulate, and manage information from a range of digital sources.
Create engaging and accessible digital content for educational contexts.
Reflect on digital literacy skills to identify and plan professional learning needs. Subject Content The Digital Learner 
The Current Digital Landscape 
Emerging Digital Technologies  
Accessibility
Instructional Design and Multimedia Principles  
Creating, curating, and sharing digital content
Presenting data effectively to key stakeholders Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 4 minutes duration 30 N Group Y  Reflection 2 minutes duration 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact Nathan Berger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Nathan Berger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Nathan Berger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1940) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1941) Teacher Education (TEAC)