Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7081 Tuberculosis (TB) Screening and Immunisation Credit Points 10 Coordinator Stephen Mcnally Opens in new window Description This subject will prepare registered nurses with the essential knowledge and skills required to perform Tuberculosis (TB) screening and immunisation, semi-independently. 

Students will be introduced to nurse led approaches for population-based screening and immunisation within a public health disease framework. The governance supporting nurse initiated diagnostic tests for TB and latent TB, as well as immunisation, will be explored. Students will develop the skills (including intradermal injection) required to perform, advocate, and promote screening for TB; latent TB infection and immunisation to prevent TB and vaccine preventable disease, in at risk populations. This will be supported with clinical practice tasks.  Case studies will provide a focus for exploring risk factors for latent TB infection and progression to TB disease and opportunities for immunisation against TB and vaccine preventable disease. 

The nationally endorsed Clinical Skills Sets and Standards of Practice for the Specialist Tuberculosis Nurse will be used as the framework for student learning and assessment. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program: 4722 - Master of Nursing (Tuberculosis Management specialisation) Learning Outcomes 1. Appraise the global, national, and jurisdictional context for TB screening and Immunisation from a public health perspective 2. Apply legal and ethical principles of practice to TB screening and Immunisation 3. Explicate the relationship between the immune system, TB screening and immunisation 4. Demonstrate the competency standards for TB screening and BCG vaccination as defined in the nationally endorsed TB Nurses Clinical Skills Sets 5. Demonstrate the knowledge required to perform Immunisation as defined by the HESA Standards for the Accreditation of Immunisation Courses 6. Justify the governance supporting semi-independent nursing practice within jurisdictional TB and Immunisation Programs Subject Content Introduction - Nurse initiated screening and immunisation for TB Overview of TB TB screening Immunisation (equivalent to shortest HESA accredited course) Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access program materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the term. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 60 minutes 40 Y Individual Y  Short Answer 2000 words 60 Y Individual Y  Practical 60 minutes S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Stephen Mcnally Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS) Tuberculosis Management, Testamur Major (T093)