Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3015 Language and Literacy in Years 3-6 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102650 Coordinator Johanna Einfalt Opens in new window Description The subject extends understandings of English content based on the strands of language, literature and literacy and the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: English K-10 with a focus on years 3-6. Students will draw on contemporary theories of literacy learning and teaching, and will examine a repertoire of teaching and assessment strategies for deconstructing and constructing a range of texts in classrooms. By investigating a range of written and multimodal genres, their textual structures and grammar, students will develop their meta-semiotic awareness. This awareness is crucial when they plan to teach primary school students literacy skills related to various learning areas of the Australian Curriculum. In this subject, students' technological, pedagogical and content knowledge is progressively enhanced to prepare them to teach innovatively with digital media with simultaneous infusion of emergent language and literacy practices. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 3016 Language and Literacy in the Early Years or TEAC 1020 Language and Literacy 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Analyse formal and informal literacy events to identify how they promote children’s literacies in the digital age. 2. Examine strategies for teaching language and literacy skills to students based on the Australian Curriculum: English and NSW English K-10 syllabus. 3. Evaluate assessment tasks and their accompanying marking criteria for monitoring students’ progress in meeting language and literacy learning outcomes. 4. Distinguish the purpose, structure and grammar of informative, persuasive and imaginative texts. 5. Plan lesson sequences that use resources, including ICT, to support diverse learners (including EAL/D, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students) in responding critically to multimodal texts and composing digital texts. Subject Content 1. Children’s literacies in the digital age.
2. Content and accompanying strategies for teaching language and literacy skills based on the Australian Curriculum: English and NSW English K-10 syllabus.
3. Assessment of language and literacy skills: principles, practices and strategies.
4. The purpose, structure and grammar of informative, persuasive and imaginative texts.
5. The language of meaning-making resources in various learning areas of the Australian Curriculum and NSW syllabuses.
6. Planning to teach multimodal literacies and authoring with a unit of work.
7. Digital media for language and literacy learning and teaching. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 500 words in total 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Johanna Einfalt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)