Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2036 Screen and Sound Practices 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102407 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description Following on from Screen and Sound Practices 1, this subject introduces students to more advanced principles of screen and sound media production with an emphasis on digital video, new media, and short film drama production. Students develop a depth of awareness about screen language through critical reflection upon classic and contemporary cinemas as well as practical exercises. Through a series of specialised modules and workshops, students continue to develop their knowledge and skills in media production including camera coverage, visual storytelling, genre, narrative, montage, and sound design and editing. The subject is complemented by further technical training in camera, sound and editing software. Students produce a major creative media project for a video work under 10 minutes duration. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 2035 Equivalent Subjects COMM 2034 - Screen and Sound Practices Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points at Level 1 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of key media concepts, histories and practices, and their relevance within both Australian screen media industries and in an international context.
Demonstrate an understanding of the multiple ways in which screen media arts are connected with other related fields (design, visual arts, cultural studies and humanities).
Demonstrate a sound understanding of the short film form: aesthetics, production, narrative, and exhibition, and apply new directions and new technologies in short film production.
Demonstrate effective technical skills in camera and sound recording.
Demonstrate an understanding of the key crew roles in producing a short film: Director, Producer, Cinematographer, Sound Designer, Production Designer, Editor, Writer.
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge in the analysis and content creation of screen media applying critical, reflective, and creative skills.
Produce a short film of under 10 minutes.
Adequately assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Concepts, techniques and practices in screen media production and creative content production
Australian screen industries
Short film production Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Production Plan 2000 words 60 N Individual   Short film/video Less than 10 minutes 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM)