Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3001 Applied Exercise Science for Personal Trainers and Coaches Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401056 Coordinator Sarah Kennedy Opens in new window Description Students will learn the functional anatomy, exercise physiology, physical fitness, motor development and exercise training content required to function as competent personal trainers and/or sports coaches.  Students will also administer and undertake laboratory exercises designed to test and administer fitness programs for healthy individuals School Health Sciences Discipline Sport and Recreation Activities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 1022 AND
SPRT 1001 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7759 - Personal Training and Coaching Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4659 Bachelor of Health Science (PDHPE), 4742 - Bachelor of Health Science (HPE) - Pathway to Teaching (Secondary), 4747 - Bachelor of Health Science (HPE) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education). Assumed Knowledge An understanding of human biology and fundamental principles in exercise science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe cardiorespiratory, neuromuscular, anaerobic and aerobic energy systems and analyse their application to fitness and performance
Conduct exercise consultations, select suitable exercise tests and administer them to assess various components of physical fitness and performance
Develop exercise programs for healthy individuals to achieve desired performance and/or fitness gains
Use and justify an evidence-based approach to personal training and coaching practices
Compare and contrast key physiological differences between trained and untrained individuals
Analyse the use of ergogenic aids in sport and exercise Subject Content 1. Neural control of muscle contraction
2. Muscle physiology and contraction
3. Aerobic and anaerobic energy systems
4.Cardiorespiratory physiology
5. Pre-exercise screening and consultation
6. Exercise testing for healthy clients
7. Exercise prescription (cardiorespiratory, resistance training, flexibility)
8. Personal experience of exercise testing and training
9. Physiological differences between trained and untrained individuals
10. Ergogenic aids in sport and exercise Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 4 pages 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Maximum 1,000 words & debate 30 N Group/Individual N  Case Study Maximum 1,500 words + 10 minutes presentation 40 N Group/Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sarah Kennedy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)