Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1039 Scientist, Artist, Teacher Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102821 Coordinator Karin Louise Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to develop pre-service teachers' efficacy and identities in the content area of science and the arts. Building on the concepts of teaching-artists and scientist-as-teacher this subject gives future teachers agency to create innovative and transformative learning experiences for the primary classroom. In this subject students build on their content knowledge in science and the arts, as developed in the subjects Science and Technology in the Primary Years, and Creative Arts Education. They will develop science, performing arts (dance, drama and music), visual arts and media arts skills which can enhance their repertoire for the classroom. This subject will additionally explore the intersection of science and the arts, developing knowledge of creativity, aesthetics, innovation, artistic and scientific processes. It has been designed to give all students the opportunity to develop their knowledge, understanding, skills, confidence and competence in the science and the arts in discrete and integrated forms. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of Science and Arts in the context of the Primary classroom, including theories, philosophies and practices that underpin them;
Research, reflect on and critically analyse the importance of Science, the Arts and their integration in the holistic development of children and their role in building innovation and skills for the future.
Exhibit competencies in a range of skills and knowledge in Science, Performing Arts (Dance, Drama and Music), Visual Arts and Media that can be translated effectively to the primary context.
Articulate the ways that scientific and artistic knowledge and skills contribute to teacher identity and efficacy in teaching Science and the Arts.
Integrate Science and the Arts, through exploration of collaborative learning processes, experimentation, innovation, imagination, creativity and problem-based learning.
Use physical and digital technologies to exhibit practical skills in Science and the Arts. Subject Content Theory, principles and practices related to Science and Arts education, for example, working scientifically and artistically, using collaborative learning processes, experimentation, innovation, imagination, creativity and problem-based learning;
Research the importance of Science and the Arts in the holistic development of primary-aged students and its role in building innovation and skills for the future
Development of identities and efficacy of teaching-scientist and teaching-artist;
Ways of integrating working scientifically and artistically
Using physical and digital technologies to exhibit practical skills in Science and the Arts
Concepts pervasive in sciences and the arts, for example colour, shadows, music, rhythmic body movement, landforms, shapes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 3-8 minute performance  30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1200 words/15mins 40 N Individual N  Reflection 1000 words/3min 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Maree Skillen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Diploma in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1878) Teacher Education (TEAC)