Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3043 Midwife as a Facilitator of Learning Credit Points 10 Coordinator Fiona Arundell Opens in new window Description In this subject students will gain knowledge of adult learning principles and skills in facilitating learning in a range of hospital and community settings, including group antenatal care and childbirth and parenting education sessions. The role of the midwife in supporting women to make informed choices and be self-determined will be explored.  In addition, students will gain knowledge and skills in facilitating student and peer learning and will begin to understand their role in teaching and learning as a registered midwife. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery Learning Outcomes 1. Apply adult learning principles when working with students, peers, women and families.
2. Appraise the skills required for group facilitation
3. Facilitate learning by using a range of communication skills
4. Promote health improvement, women’s choices and self-determination through an educational process
5. Evaluate a range of teaching strategies and resources to facilitate health learning for women and families
6. Critically analyse the role of the midwife in supporting student, new graduate and peer learning Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Viva Voce 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minute presentation 20 N Individual Y  Reflection 750 word reflection 20 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Fiona Arundell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Nursing (NURS)