Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1009 Living, Learning and Working on the Web Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102502 Coordinator Benjamin Hanckel Opens in new window Description This subject prepares students for living, learning and working in a digital society. We examine how the web mediates behaviour, communication and culture in contemporary times. Students learn by participating and enterprising in online spaces as part of a supportive learning community. This subject also provides an important opportunity for students to develop a professional online web presence and identity that is relevant for their university studies, employability and the future of work. School Social Sciences Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1064 Digital Identities Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Participate in online spaces with relevant communities and audiences
Interpret online behaviour, communication and participation using psychological and social theories
Identify ways in which the web shapes and influences everyday social practices
Curate a professional online web presence and identity
Design and produce digital content on contemporary social issues
Demonstrate an entrepreneurial approach to the dissemination and promotion of digital content Subject Content 1. The participatory web for learning communities
2. The self online in networked publics
3. Knowledge creation, user generated content and storytelling practices
4. Digital inequalities - human rights, inclusion and citizenship
5. Ethical issues - privacy, surveillance, and safety
6. Influencing on the web - social change and digital activism
7. Researching social life using the social web and digital technologies
8. Digital entrepreneurship
9. Social media, employability and the future of work
10. Life long learning and the future of knowledge production Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation A - blog post based around the weekly themes or relevant topics of interest.
 2 x 500 words 30 N Individual   Participation B - Constructive comments on fellow students' blogs. 4 x 50 10 N Individual   Applied Project 2000 words per group (4 students per group) 30 N Group   Reflection 1000 words (or spoken equivalent) 30 N Individual WSU Online Trimester 1 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 3 x 500 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 500 words per student 20 N Group N  Portfolio 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)