Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2062 Youth Cultures and Moral Panics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100298 Coordinator Sherene Idriss Opens in new window Description Young people have long been the focus of social fears. Public figures regularly express concern about the disorder created by unruly youths, or the effects of change on young people. This is the case in relation to popular music, 'youth gangs', new technologies and other areas. This subject will consider how young people became defined as a problem by politicians, policy, the media and others. Resulting 'moral panics' represent social anxieties around economic, social and technological change, producing calls for 'solutions' which often entail repressive laws or policing. Students will examine a range of case studies from Australia and elsewhere. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge Satisfactory understanding of key issues and concepts of first year core subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand the nature and formation of moral panics
Describe and explain the key features and concepts of subculture theory
Investigate the emergence of the category of youth in public discourse
Examine the role of the media in amplifying public insecurities around youth and in identifying 'folk devils'
Assess the social and economic roots of disorder among young people
Consider the connections between social anxieties, governance, policing and media coverage of youth cultures and disorder
Evaluate the connections between youth, ethnicity, class and gender in representations of youth in contemporary Australia Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Short Answer 90 minutes 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Sherene Idriss Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sherene Idriss Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Childhood Studies, Major (0330) Childhood Studies, Minor (0330) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)