Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3023 Indigenous Disability and Inclusion Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102847 Coordinator Jeeva Sajan Opens in new window Description Intersecting two socially and economically marginalised groups, Australia's Indigenous peoples living with disability require services and supports that are both culturally safe and disability aware. Through this subject, future practitioners of the disability and Indigenous services workforce will be exposed to an Indigenous philosophy of disability that is characterised by a culture of inclusion, as a contrast to westernised medical models of disability. The subject will examine the unique exposures to social and economic marginalisation and discrimination encountered by people who are Indigenous and live with disability, and how these factors intersect as barriers to their access to service systems, supports and lives with dignity. School Social Sciences Discipline Care for the Disabled Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain how the cultural knowledge of disability interact with western models of disability for Indigenous peoples.
Describe the barriers that Indigenous peoples with disability face in accessing services and support systems.
Identify how culturally informed disability can facilitate the participation of Indigenous people with disability and other marginalised groups.
Examine the ways in which Indigenous knowledge of disability and social inclusion can be enabled in policy and practice. Subject Content Indigenous cultural and conceptual understandings of disability and social inclusion, in comparison to western models of disability.
The historical and contemporary impact of colonisation on the discrimination and social inequality experienced by Indigenous people with disability.
Applications of Indigenous disability and inclusion in international human rights and Australian public policy, focussing on the National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) and Closing the Gap.
Contemporary developments in culturally led social inclusion, healing and narrative practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words plus bibliography 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project Group presentation (10 minutes) 20 N Group Y  Reflection 300 words 10 N Individual Y  Report 1,200 words plus bibliography 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jeeva Sajan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Disability Studies, Major (0252) Disability Studies, Minor (0252) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Indigenous Studies, Minor (0263)