Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3016 Bilingualism and Biculturalism Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101449 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description Bilingualism and biculturalism are important aspects of life in Australia: many Australian residents are, were, or could be, bilingual and/or bicultural. This subject aims to give students an understanding and appreciation of the most important facets and manifestations of bilingualism and biculturalism, in the linguistic, cognitive, personal, societal and educational spheres, particularly with regard to the Australian context. It also aims to show students how this subject relates to broader studies in education, humanities, linguistics, and social sciences. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 2371 - Bilingualism and Biculturalism Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate knowledge about raising children bilingually and biculturally.
identify and explain language choice, language maintenance and language shift in multilingual societies as well as code-switching and language mixing in bilingual speakers.
identify relationships between bilingualism and cognitive development.
evaluate the effectiveness of bilingual education programs and aspects of cross-cultural and/or inter-cultural communication.
demonstrate understanding of the complex issues and different dimensions of individual and social bilingualism.
critically analyse a range of attitudes toward bilingualism and their relationships with multi-identity. Subject Content 1. A short overview and introduction to the main concepts of bilingualism and biculturalism.
2. The concept of biculturalism; languages in contact - language maintenance, shift and change; language attitudes; multi-identity.
3. The nature of language interaction and codeswitching, e.g. language choice.
4. Bilingualism and cognitive development.
5. Bilingual language acquisition; raising children bilingually and biculturally.
6. Bilingual education in Australia and overseas; bilingual programs.
7. Bilingualism and aspects of cross-cultural, intercultural communication. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary (continuous assessment and feedback) 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 - 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 30 minutes 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Languages and Linguistics (1810) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022) Linguistics, Minor (0022)