Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 4002 Integrated Clinical Rotations 3 Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 400977 Coordinator Benjamin Woodham Opens in new window Description The Subject Outline for this subject can be found by clicking on the "Current MBBS, MD Subject Outlines" link in the left-hand menu. Integrated Clinical Rotation 3 is the first session of the third major clinical year of the MB BS program.  It consists of five weeks in each Medicine, Surgery, General Practice or Indigenous Health or ICU, ED & Anaesthetics.  There will also be two Conference weeks where all students will be based at either Campbelltown Campus, Macarthur Clinical School or Blacktown Clinical School.  Students will be based at a number of appropriate hospitals throughout Sydney.  Students will also undertake two online learning modules (Scientific Streams).  Students will also undertake a reflective portfolio. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 4001 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4641 Bachelor of Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Patient Care: Provides patient centred care as a member of an interdisciplinary team under appropriate supervision; Communication, Patient Assessment, Patient Management.
Health in the Community: Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia; Determinants of Health & Illness; Health Needs; Health Care Systems; Health Promotion; Indigenous Health.
Personal and professional development: Demonstrates and develops professional skills, responsibilities and attitudes; Ethical Practice, Teamwork, Learning & Teaching, Personal Needs, Medical humanities.
Scientific basis of medicine: Develops and applies a sound understanding of the scientific foundations (social, basic and clinical) of medical practice; Applies Science to Practice, Uses Evidence, Research. Subject Content 1. 5 weeks of Medicine in a hospital practicum and
2. 5 weeks of Surgery in a hospital practicum and
3. 5 weeks of General Practice in a practicum or
4. 5 weeks of Indigenous Health in a community practicum or
5. 5 weeks of ICU, ED & Anaesthetics in a hospital practicum
6. Conference weeks X 1
7. 2 Scientific Streams – on line learning packages appropriate to rotation (25 hours each)
Any clinical attachments that have not been completed, then the remaining 3 attachments will be done in the Medicine in Practice subject Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30-60 minutes each S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam The assessment will consist of three 2-hour papers containing Multiple Choice Questions (Paper A), a mixture of Modified Essay Questions and Short Answer Question format (Paper B) and Extended Matching Questions (Paper C). S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Case-Based Discussions Clinical One assessment consisting of at least three scenarios of 10 minutes each. Prescribing Skills Assessment Examination Online exam, Summative Long case 80 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Essay Throughout the Year S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1200-1500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Quiz There is a total of 25 hours per module through out the Year S/U Y Individual Y  Learning Contract Throughout the Year S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Throughout the Year S/U Y Individual Y The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 1a	30-60mins each
1b	30-60mins each 5 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 2a	30-60mins
2b	30-60mins 5 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 3.1a N/A
3.1b N/A
3.1c 2000 - 2500 S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 3.2a 30-60mins
3.2b 30-60mins
3.2c throughout attachment 
3.2d 30-60mins  S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 3.3a 30-60mins
3.3b 30-60mins S/U Y Individual Y  Short Answer 2 hours 12.5 Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 2 hours 12.5 Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 2 hours 12.5 Y Individual Y  Essay 7a 300 words per entry
7b Essay - 1500 words 12.5 Y Individual Y  Quiz 50 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Learning Contract Semester Long S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance  40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Frank Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)