Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7026 Professional Internship in Health Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 401368 Coordinator Arianne Reis Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the opportunity to translate the content of the postgraduate program to the context of the workplace through an integrated workplace internship. This experience will allow the student to develop the necessary skills and competencies expected of high performing health professionals. The Internship enables a focused opportunity to work in contemporary healthcare settings with leaders and managers from a variety of professions. Students will also engage in coursework with a focus on creating an portfolio that revisits all content learned throughout their courses to critically assess their learning journey and learning outcomes. This process will teach students how to systematically self-reflect in deep and transformative ways, engaging with theory and knowledge acquired and developed through their studies to design and create a portfolio of their skills and competencies through a social capital framework. The subject will culminate in a presentation of the results of their internship project in a research and practice seminar. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a post-graduate program and have a GPA of 5.5 or greater. Students enrolled in the Master of Public Health or Master of Health Science must have successfully completed 80 credit points. Permission is required for enrolment. Students must submit a CV and cover letter to the subject Coordinator detailing their previous professional experience/background and what they wish to achieve in the internship, including preferred areas of work in health. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique peer-reviewed literature and identify gaps in current knowledge and practice
Demonstrate good analytical skills, strong problem-solving skills and a logical approach to achieving outcomes
Plan, manage and deliver a comprehensive applied project or set of related tasks relevant to the health work place.
Demonstrate the ability to work cooperatively and effectively within a team environment displaying positive and constructive work behaviours to achieve common goals.
Engage in self-analysis to identify factors relevant to supporting life-long learning and ethical professional practice
Articulate and implement the principles of reflective practice in personal and professional settings
Evaluate personal strengths and their applications to leadership and participation in professional teams
Assess ones own capabilities in doing and knowing based on evidence of experience and practice Subject Content 1.Professional experience in selected workplace
2.The reflective practice: Reporting and responding; relating; reasoning; and reconstructing
3.Social capital, habitus, field and practice ? using Bourdieu?fs social capital theory to self-reflect Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Self-Assessment 500 words 10 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 10 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Public Health (4702) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Health (HLTH)