Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3015 Digital Journalism Production Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102057 Coordinator Margot Dunphy Opens in new window Description Digital technologies have revolutionised news delivery. Journalists in every area of the profession now require video, audio, online and print skills to work across multiple platforms and contexts. This subject introduces students to multiplatform digital journalism and the ways in which multiple media can be used to tell stories for a range of contexts.Students develop their own blog site, that is populated using digital devices for working with video, audio and text to engage with a range of social media storytelling modes to extend stories across multiple media contexts. Based on an understanding of ethical and informed journalism practices, students are encouraged to develop their own voice as an independent thinker and writer into the public domain of online publishing. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 3036 - Television Journalism COMM 3030 - Radio Journalism Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points and at least 20 credit points from COMM 2027 News Reporting, COMM 2017 Feature Writing, COMM 2022 Journalism Research & Investigation, COMM 2029 Photo Journalism, PERF 1009 Introduction to Sound Technologies, DESN 2014 Researching the Visual, PERF 1019 Sound Synthesis and the Sound Environment or DESN 1021 Web and Time Based Design. Assumed Knowledge Basics of news writing for broadcast media and news gathering. Knowledge of legal issues affecting journalism and Journalism Ethics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate practical skills in newsgathering, research and production
Use digital audio and video devices to record material appropriate for news stories
Use desktop editing systems and blog templates to assemble basic audio and video stories
Explain the legal and ethical issues relevant to digital journalism
Work in teams and individually.
Critically analyse multi-media journalism
Adequately assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content 1. Video and audio news and current affairs
2. Finding stories
3. Scripting, narrating and constructing audio and video news stories
4. Use of digital video and audio capture equipment and desktop editing
5. Online and social media delivery of news material
6. The social role of digital journalism Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Equivalent 750 words (Web site, plus Youtube, FB, Twitter) 10 N Individual N  Professional Task Video Story (scripted) 2 minutes; Accompanying Facebook/Blog post 100 words 20 N Group/Individual N  Professional Task Video story (scripted) 3 minutes; Accompanying Facebook post/Blog post 250 words, FacebookLive Report 1.5 minutes, and Tweet with picture. 30 N Group/Individual N  Portfolio Completed Blog portfolio; containing story package content 1 and 2 plus links, plus 3 best weekly class tasks. Reflection on multi-platform writing process as additional blog post (600 words) 30 N Individual N  Participation Weekly production exercises, Group participation  10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Journalism, Major (0069) Journalism, Minor (0069) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)