Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4042 Final Year Project 2 (UG Engineering) Credit Points 20 Description This subject continues and finalises the project started in subject “Final Year Project 1 (UG Engineering)” incorporating more in-depth and detailed investigations. Throughout the semester students will develop their design, research and presentation skills under the supervision of academic or industry mentors as co-supervisors.  Students will deliver either a design or a research oriented capstone project at a professional level. This capstone project demonstrates a student’s ability to plan, test, execute, document and report on an engineering project at a high level. Students completing this subject will develop skills relevant to their future careers as engineers or as a pathway to higher degree studies. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 4041 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3728 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours)/Bachelor of Business or 3740 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) and they must have completed at least 220 credit points. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Implement the outcomes from the FYP1 specific to research goals.
Evaluate research outcomes and their significance to the field of engineering.
Apply initiative and creativity in dealing with critical research issues.
Manage an engineering research and/or design project that incorporates relevant processes and methodologies including WHS and risk management.
Communicate research and/or design work in an ethical and concise manner and in a range of formats reflective of scholarly and engineering professional practice.
Reflect on self-assessment and feedback for research and/or design project work. Subject Content Research skills 
Technical presentation skills
Risk management
Project management
Engineering ethics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 8 pages  (using the proforma supplied) 15 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Report 10000 words 65 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)