Academic Handbook Current Edition PROC 1009 Materials Science in Engineering (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ben Kelley Opens in new window Description This subject provides you with an introduction to the science of engineering materials and their application across various industries. It covers key topics such as atomic structure, interatomic bonding, crystalline structure, and defects in solids. You will learn about the mechanical and physical properties of a wide range of materials, including metals, ceramics, polymers, composites, and advanced materials. This subject will teach you how to select the right materials for specific engineering needs, while emphasising sustainability principles. You will gain hands-on experience in analysing material properties and understanding phase diagrams, corrosion, and degradation. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Materials Engineering Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and describe the fundamental principles of materials science, including atomic structure, bonding, crystallography, diffusion, phase diagrams, and the relationships between material properties and structure.
Analyse and interpret phase diagrams and microstructures to assess material properties and predict mechanical failures, corrosion, and degradation.
Select appropriate materials for specific engineering applications, considering material properties, sustainability principles, and Indigenous Australian knowledge.
Apply materials science knowledge to solve practical engineering problems.
Work effectively in a team to maintain lab safety, analyse data, and communicate findings. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2x Quizzes, 1 hour each 30 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours x 5 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 1000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes per group 10 N Group N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC)