Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2067 History of the Ancient World Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102814 Coordinator Gregory Barton Opens in new window Description Students explore the rise and fall of major civilizations in the ancient world.  The subject surveys empires from Europe to East Asia.  The subject surveys the transition from hunter gatherers to the age of agriculture and the rise of city states, and vast empires with far-flung trading networks.  It also looks at the impact of ancient pandemics, technology and alcohol, mythology, religion and philosophical ideas.     The subject allows students to explore how ideas of nature and spirituality defined imperial power centres and how these empires in turn drove trade and created vast cultural zones that still impact the world today.  Students will read and respond to the voices of the past and forge their own interpretation of the broad outline of the ancient world. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must have successfully compeleted 40 credit points in currently enrolled program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Compare the historical experiences of ancient societies with a focus on daily life.
Examine the key features and characteristics of the civilizations studied.
Investigate and apply primary and secondary sources to the study of ancient societies. Subject Content 1. From Hunter Gatherers to Agriculture.
2. Deep History in Eurasia, Australia and Africa.
3. Environmental and Health Impact of Agriculture.
4. Writing and Sumer.
5. Trade Networks: Assyria, Babylon and Harappan.
6. Ancient Egypt.
7. Ancient Persia.
8. India and Hinduism.
9. China and Buddhism.
10. Greece.
11. Rome.
12. Mediterranean Christianity.
13. Science and Technology in Ancient Empires. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes + 750 words 30 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Gregory Barton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Gregory Barton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gregory Barton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Ancient History, Minor (0262) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Ancient History Education, Major (0352) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)