Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 3005 Democracy in Asia Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100903 Coordinator Badrul Khan Opens in new window Description This subject is concerned with the theory and practice of democracy in modern and contemporary history of Asia. It explores a range of issues relating to liberalism, human rights, political reform and democratization. It seeks to explain the differences in the ways in which democracy has been conceived, understood and practiced in different cultures and societies. It also examines the East-West debate on "Asian values" and the suitability of Western-style democracy to Asia. Finally, it discusses the prospects for democracy in Asia. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Political Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 9998 - Democracy in Asia Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explain the meanings and conceptions of democracy in Asian and Western political thought;
demonstrate a knowledge of the processes of democratisation in Asian countries;
explain the different patterns and models in which democracy has evolved in the countries of Asia; and
identify the relevance of democracy and human rights to the developmental needs of modern and contemporary Asia. Subject Content 1. Democracy and democratization in Asia: An introduction
2. Theory and models of democracy
3. Human rights in contemporary democratic thought
4. Cultural relativism and the "Asian values" debate in contemporary Asia
5. The quest for democracy in pre-communist China
6. The struggle for democracy in contemporary China
7. The Democratisation of Taiwan and South Korea
8. Democracy in pre-war Japan
9. Democratisation in post-war Japan
10. Contending visions of democracy in Indonesia 1920-1997
11. The battle for democracy in contemporary Indonesia
12. Democratisation in other parts of Southeast Asia
13. Plenary discussion: East & West, divergence and convergence Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) International Relations and Asian Studies, Major (0019) International Relations and Asian Studies, Minor (0019) Political Science and Policy (POLI)