Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4034 Climate Smart Engineering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301420 Coordinator Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window Description Climate change is one of the most significant and urgent challenges facing the world today. In this unit, students will learn and appropriately apply scientific principles, in an engineering context, to reduce our impact on climate as well as in adopting to changing climate conditions. Students will explore both current and emerging technologies, that address climate change, in order to propose workable real world solutions. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate designs for climate smartness.
Design geoengineering approaches and explain the working principles.
Design three climate proof systems/infrastructure and explain the working principles.
Develop a comprehensive plan to improve climate smartness of a chosen product, infrastructure or system and communicate to technical and non-technical audience. Subject Content 1.Climate change and its relation to the technology
2.Geoengineering ? emission reduction, carbon sequestration, forest expansion, orbital mirrors, sunshades etc.
3.Design of climate proof systems ? transport, building, water supply systems, agriculture, water resources etc. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes  15 N Individual N  Simulation 2000-2500 words and 
10 minutes
presentation 
per student
 40 N Both (Individual & Group) N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Sustainability Engineering, Concentration (0281) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129) ​Sustainability Engineering, Minor (0281)