Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1038 Design Graphics: Presenting Innovation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301283 Coordinator Karen Yevenes Opens in new window Description Design visualisation in the form of 2D and 3D graphics is fundamental to the overall design process. This subject provides students with essential knowledge of design principles as used in visual communication. Students will employ graphic techniques to effectively convey a design proposal using creativity, technical skill, and quality design principles in a manner that is consistent with industry expectations. Students will produce graphic work that is portfolio-ready and suitable to display to potential clients and employers. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1022 Industrial Graphics 1 Presentation
ENGR 1021 Graphics 1 2D 3D Industrial Design Communication Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan a design solution for a specific design brief using graphic visualisation techniques.
Design an object or building concept through the use of Computer-Aided Design (CAD).
Use a range of low fidelity and high fidelity representations (ranging from hand sketches to digital models).
Communicate a response to a design brief in the form of concept sketches and 2D/3D digital design drawings. Subject Content ?Use of 2D and 3D graphics tools to represent a design concept
?Design communication to explain working properties and features of design concepts
?Integration of basic drawing skills for industrial design and architecture students; and skills to communicate design ideas Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1 x A3/A2 size graphic composition  30 N Individual N  Portfolio 5 x A3 size graphic concepts  30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1 x A3/A2 size graphic composition 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Karen Yevenes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Game Design, Minor (0090) Architecture, Major (0227) Bachelor of Architectural Design (3753) Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Postgraduate Bridging Program (Architecture) (3768) Visualisation and Graphics, Major (0080) Visualisation, Minor (0083)