Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7025 Healthcare Data for Decision-Making Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401365 Coordinator Kingsley Agho Opens in new window Description Most professions in the health sciences need to read and interpret data relating to individual health status, interpret health risks in communities, and engage in the evaluation of interventions, or impact of health policies or programs. Many public health practitioners are actively involved in surveillance, quantitative research and/or evaluation. This subject provides an opportunity to learn about making health service decisions using appropriate data. Students learn how to explore and use data that are assembled to replicate real patient data to both generate and answer questions. The focus may be managerial or clinical, or an integration of these. Students analyse the assembled patient dataset to generate and interpret health statistics, and translate them into health information and knowledge for decision-making. Students completing this subject develop the ability to explore health data and provide recommendations based on the findings. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Competent use of Microsoft Excel, and high school mathematics (arithmetic, formulas and algebra, reading graphs). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explore and organise data in order to generate reports and make recommendations
Identify and compare the relationship between data, information, knowledge and wisdom and how these elements inform practice, management, and policy
Explain data elements in contemporary health data terminologies Subject Content 1.Health informatics
2.Describing and visualising health data using appropriate software e.g. Microsoft Excel and SPSS
3.Determining relationships between variables
4.Limitations of the data and analysis and risks of misinterpretation
5.Administrative Data and Clinical Data
6.Demography and Health Indicators
7.Working with Excel - Survival Analysis
8.Interpreting data to determine health service needs
9.Communication and dissemination of health information data to key stakeholders
10.Working in Excel (II): Time Series Analysis
3.Determining relationships between variables through data linkage
5.Unintended errors in technology
6.Standardisation of data
7.Privacy, security and confidentiality Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kingsley Agho Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kingsley Agho Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kingsley Agho Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kingsley Agho Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kingsley Agho Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Aged Care Management (4756) Graduate Certificate in Health Science (4701) Graduate Diploma in Aged Care Management (4757) Graduate Diploma in Digital Health (4778) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management (4777) Graduate Diploma in Occupational Health and Safety (4779) Health Science Modelling and Research, Testamur Major (T141) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Ag, Env and Related (AGEN) Other Health (HLTH) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)