Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1018 Fundamentals of Mechanics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300463 Coordinator Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window Description In this subject students acquire knowledge about the action and interaction of forces, moments and couples in two and three dimensions.  Students then apply this to the analysis of the equilibrium of single bodies, and of trusses, mechanisms, and transversely loaded beams.  In addition, students study the dynamics of a non-rotating body, and a body rotating about a fixed axis.  Further, they study the friction between bodies.  Students conduct experiments to see how the lecture content applies to the real world, and make extensive use of vector algebra. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1020 Fundamentals of Mechanics (WSTC) ENGR 1019 Fundamentals of Mechanics (WSTC Assoc Deg) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use equilibrium to evaluate unknown reactions, internal loads and represent distributed forces.
Evaluate the internal forces in planar trusses, and mechanisms.
Calculate the acceleration of a body under the action of an unbalanced force or couple.
Analyse static and kinetic friction.
Construct bending moment and shear force diagrams.
Take measurements in the real world, and use them to verify the theory presented in the lectures. Subject Content Statics in two dimensions
Statics in three dimensions
Translational Dynamics
Rotational Dynamics
Beam Diagrams Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving Two 3-hour practical labs for 5 different experiments 20 Y Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 12 tutorial sets with 
5 -10 questions
(each)  12 Y Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 34 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 34 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) (3771) Bachelor of Engineering Science (3691) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Robotics, Minor (0275) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)