Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 7018 Introductory  Accounting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200396 Coordinator Yongqing Li Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to provide a comprehensive introduction to contemporary financial accounting. This is an essential component in the understanding of the production and use of accounting information in business. This subject applies accounting concepts, standards and principles enabling students to be competent in the technical skills in accounting which is a fundamental tool for making economic decisions and for analysing and solving business problems. Students learn to apply such concepts, standards and principles through a range of individual and collaborative means using a blended learning design that draws on current and future trends in the broad international context. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects ACCT 7007 - Accounting A Business Perspective (PG) ACCT 7015 - Financial Reports for Decision Making Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Students wishing to take this subject as an elective need approval from the program Advisor. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design an appropriately principled financial accounting information system.  
Use accounting concepts and techniques to analyse, record, process and prepare financial statements. 
Apply accounting principles to account for current and non-current assets and liabilities and critically evaluate different accounting policies. 
Apply recognition rules to recognise common revenue transactions. 
Assess profitability and financial strength of an organisation (sole trader, partnership and company) using accounting information. 
Appraise the accounting environment, the role of accounting and importance of ethics to the accounting profession. Subject Content The accounting environment and basics of financial reporting
The recording system: recording transactions, journal entries, posting to ledgers and trial balances 
The recording system: end of period adjustments, worksheet, and finalising accounts
Accounting cycle – closing and reversing entries and the accounting system
Reporting and measuring assets
Measuring and reporting inventories
Cash flows and bank reconciliations
Revenue recognition
Accounting for liabilities
Financial statement analysis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio equivalent to 1,000 words 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words
 20 N Individual N  Quiz 50 minutes 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours
 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus Quarter 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Yongqing Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Yongqing Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 4 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Graduate Certificate in Accounting (2790) Master of Professional Accounting (2689) Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) (2815) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813) Masters Qualifying Program with Business English (2845)