Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4018 Podiatric Practice 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401114 Coordinator Kym Hennessy Opens in new window Description This subject is the third of four clinical practice subjects.  Building on previous clinical subjects and academic knowledge the subject develops student assessment skills encouraging the student to make the appropriate selection of assessment techniques to diagnose, treat and provide short and long term health outcomes. Students will continue to participate in clinical activities under supervision to manage foot pathologies with increased scope to evaluate and manage more complex cases ( i.e. surgery, paediatrics, high risk foot). Clinical activities include UniClinic sessions, Clinical Therapies, Tutorials, and External Clinical Placement. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3029 AND
REHA 3030 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7021 - Podiatric Practice 3 Restrictions Students mut be enrolled in 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Demonstrate skills in safe work practices including infection control and work health and safety in a clinical setting.
2. Apply professional communication skills in a clinical setting.
3. Appraise and review assessment, diagnostic and management skills necessary for the development and application of treatment of patients with general foot and lower extremity pathologies.
4. Consolidate specialist diagnostic skills for the assessment of patients from special populations including radiographic interpretation, vascular assessment, neurological assessment, and biomechanical assessment.
5. Develop and apply assessment, diagnosis and management knowledge and skills in the context of complex clinical cases including paediatric, sports and geriatric patients.
6. Develop and demonstrate safe and competent skills in undertaking nail surgery procedures.
7. Develop and refine skills in the manufacture of custom made functional orthotic devices including neutral casting, positive cast manufacture, grinding and safety competencies.
8. Develop and apply soft tissue techniques in the context of management of musculoskelatal pathologies. Subject Content This is the third of four clinical practice subjects, the student will participate in patient assessment, diagnosis, and management.  Completing  this unit, builds on students clinical and academic skills in preparation for becoming a graduate podiatrist.
The activities will be divided into three areas:
(a) UniClinic (including surgery)
(b) Clinical therapies and clinical tutorials
(c) External Clinical Placement (a)  UniClinic (including surgery)
In these clinics, the student will consolidate and further develop patient assessment, diagnosis and management, and clinical reasoning skills. The patients who attend these clinics will be new and ongoing patients who have basic foot problems, problems associated with an existing medical condition, mechanical/functional problems or require minor surgical intervention. Appropriate assessments and management strategies will be carried out including manufacture of orthoses, soft tissue techniques, and minor surgical procedures. The students will be supervised by registered practitioners.  Tutorials will support the management and educational needs (including case presentations) to faciliate learning during sessions. (b) Clinical Therapies and clinical tutorials
This unit will continue to develop clinical skills and academic knowledge in a range of therapies. This unit will build on previous orthoses and surgery unit content taught in the 3rd year of the program.  Additional content (‘soft tissue techniques’) will also be introduced to refine student clinical application and reasoning skills to manage musculoskelatal pathologies. Clinical tutorials will support the management and educational needs (including case presentations) to facilitate learning during UniClinic sessions.
Content will include:
Manufacture of clinical devices, problem solving and ethics
Prefab and off the shelf devices
Soft tissue therapies including trigger point, dry needling and active release techniques
Revision of surgical procedures and protocols
Orthotic scripts
Translation of patient pathology and condition to orthotic script prescription 
Translation of biomechanical assessment results to orthotic script prescription (c) External Clinical Placement
A placement for 20 days of clinical activities in an external clinical site will be undertaken. The focus of this placement will be on developing assessment, diagnostic, management, and patient interaction skills in a real world clinical setting. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 4 hours 25 N Individual N  Case Study Presentation 10 minutes 15 N Individual N  Clinical Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual N  Practical Exam 40 minutes 50 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Scheduled hours on UniClinic (minimum 52 hours), 52 hours of clinical lectures/practicals/tutorials, 20 days of supervised external clinical placement S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kym Hennessy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)