Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1026 Understanding Society (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500042 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description Understanding Society introduces students to key sociological concepts, methods and theories used for the examination of individuals, social interactions, institutions and structures.  Students explore how individual experiences are connected to wider social patterns. Considering questions of power, students will be introduced to various debates concerning structure and agency and will examine social inequality.  With a focus on contemporary social life, the subject provides opportunity for students to consider current social issues and processes of social change.  At the conclusion of their studies in this subject students will have been presented with opportunities to develop skills in critical reading and sociological analysis. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1037 - Introduction to Sociology CULT 1017 - Understanding Society CULT 1019 - Understanding Society (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7170 - Undergraduate Certificate in Mental Health and Counselling. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key concepts in sociology.
Identify key characteristics of the major theoretical frameworks used in sociology.
Identify relevant sources and assess approaches to and claims about social processes and institutions in contemporary society.
Apply a sociological understanding of power, social inequality and social change to case study materials.
Demonstrate reading, writing and referencing skills commensurate with university scholarship. Subject Content The Sociological Perspective
Individual and social identities
Social groups and relationships
Social institutions
Power, structure and agency
Social Inequality
Social Change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 300 words per discussion entry (900 total) 30 N Individual N  Short Answer 900 words 20 N Individual N  Peer Review 300 Words 10 N Individual N  Case Study 1200 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Block C Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block D Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jack Isherwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Society and Culture (CULT) Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health (7170)