Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3003 Clinical Leadership and Professional Relationships Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401213 Coordinator Leone Pike Opens in new window Description The subject explores fundamental concepts and issues related to leadership in nursing and midwifery. The subject focuses on exploration of contemporary innovative approaches to leadership that may contribute to nursing and midwifery standards, person and woman centred practice, critical reflection and critical thinking in dynamic healthcare contexts. School Nursing & Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 3019 Leadership in Graduate Practice NURS 3021 Leadership in Nursing and Midwifery Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing, 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) or 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online. Students must be enrolled in 4780 to enrol in WSU Online Campus subjects. Assumed Knowledge Professional communication, roles and responsibilities of the Registered Nurse and the Midwife, ethical and legal frameworks for practice, behavioural and social sciences, critical frameworks. Learning Outcomes Critique contemporary clinical leadership approaches in nursing and midwifery practice.
Differentiate between leadership and management in relation to clinical nursing or midwifery practice.
Appraise facilitators and barriers to effective clinical leadership in the provision of optimal person and woman-centred care at different levels of experience in nursing and midwifery practice.
Evaluate strategies for change and innovation processes in contemporary primary healthcare contexts.
Apply strategies required for effective building, motivating and leading of collaborative healthcare teams in clinical practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation activities: 6 tasks, best 4 marks included in final marks 30 minutes each activity 20 N Individual   Essay: Critical reflection Scenario-Based Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual   Presentation: Group Work (Team Presentation) 15 minutes 30 N Group Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)