Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3002 Advanced Clinical Classification Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300953 Coordinator Cassie Rupnik Opens in new window Description In this subject, the student will be introduced to disease notification and registration procedures. Mortality or cause of death coding will also be examined.Concepts of organising health information in a logical way to interface with an electronic information system will be investigated. The design and role of various health classification systems including the World Health Organizations Family of International Classifications (WHO FIC), specifically ICD 11 and casemix classification systems (e.g. AR DRGs, AN SNAP) will also be discussed. The practical component of this subject will focus on the student further developing their classification skills in the more complex areas of clinical coding including endocrine disorders, specifically diabetes mellitus, circulatory diseases and interventions, genitourinary disorders, specifically chronic kidney disease, obstetrics, paediatrics and congenital anomalies and trauma and procedural complications. The ACS will be applied in detail when classifying from complex discharge summaries and full clinical episodes of care. The student will also be exposed to electronic clinical coding tools that can be used in the classification process. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Other Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 2004 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the key design principles which underpin the development of effective classification systems;
Accurately classify and group complex clinical records and discharge summaries using ICD-10-AM/ACHI/ACS (manually and electronically);
Discuss the process of disease registration and notification procedures;
Apply the rules associated with mortality coding;
Explain the relationship between terminologies and classifications and discuss their application in relation to the electronic health record;
Select the appropriate term to apply to the key concepts in classification and explain the process by which concepts from related or disparate classifications can be linked;
Analyse critically a variety of classification systems and make judgements about the clinical, management and other settings where they are appropriately applied;
Discuss contemporary and emerging issues in data classification at the national and international level. Subject Content 1. Design principles for classifications
2. The process of disease registration and notification procedures
3. Managing the coding function including the use of coding audits to improve coding quality
4. Terminologies and their relationship to the development and use of clinical languages
5. The significance of mapping between classification systems
6. Casemix classification systems
7. The WHO Family of International Disease Classifications
8. The application of classification systems in health care settings and the relationship with the electronic health record
9. National and international research and implementation directions
The practical component of this subject will focus on the student further developing their classification skills in the more complex areas of coding including: endocrine disorders, specifically diabetes mellitus, circulatory diseases and interventions, obstetrics, neonatal and congenital anomalies, injuries, poisonings, adverse reactions, sequelae and post-procedural complications.
The student will also be exposed to electronic clinical coding and grouping tools than can be used in the classification process Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words plus 15 minute verbal presentation 30 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours & 15 minutes 30 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Filippa Pretty Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Filippa Pretty Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Health Informatics, Testamur Major (T007) Information Systems (INFS)