Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 3001 Modernism Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101033 Coordinator Lorraine Sim Opens in new window Description This subject aims to introduce students to important works of literature from the earlier part of the 20th century.  Throughout the course we will be concentrating on literature but will make reference to other art forms (in particular the visual arts) to provide the intellectual context necessary to understanding the ideas of the period.  There will be a close study of a small number of important novels or works of poetry from the period, with a close consideration of techniques of writing and the way these techniques contribute to an understanding of the themes in the works. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate an understanding of Modernism and place it in intellectual, historical and artistic contexts;
demonstrate an understanding of certain key concepts and techniques important to the period; and
evaluate the importance of Modernist ideas and works in contemporary literature. Subject Content Nineteenth century influence on early 20th century practice: symbolism, realism
Ideas of artistic production
The impact of the visual arts on literature
Modernist Poetry
Modernist fiction: stream of consciousness
Modernist fiction: experimentation and tradition Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Lorraine Sim Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Lorraine Sim Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Other Creative Arts (CART) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)