Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7069 General Surgical Pathology and Gastrointestinal Pathology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401476 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description This subject introduces diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological and haemato-pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the gastrointestinal tract and liver. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7035 - Surgical Pathology 4 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialties of gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological, and haematopathology.
Assess ancillary techniques in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions within the subspecialties of gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological, and haematopathology.
Assess common and uncommon disease entities in gastrointestinal and liver pathology, including the diagnosis of non-neoplastic, benign and malignant entities.
Engage in professional development activities related to anatomical pathology.
Use evidence-based approach to inform the practice of surgical pathology in the subspecialties of gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological, and haematopathology. Subject Content Gastrointestinal tract and liver pathology
Breast pathology
Head and neck pathology
Paediatric pathology
Gynaecological pathology
Haematopathology Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students need to meet the legislative requirements to be in a supervised specialist training role in Pathology, and hence be working clinically in a hospital/laboratory setting. If a student fails to meet these requirements they will not be allowed to enrol in the subject. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 20 cases ~50-100 words each S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tristan Rutland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Medicine (Pathology) (4750) Medical Studies (MEDI)