Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7018 International Corporate Governance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200902 Coordinator Rangika Palliyaarachchi Opens in new window Description The role of corporations in society has become increasingly significant in shaping global economic, social, and environmental outcomes. This advanced course provides an interdisciplinary examination of the role of modern corporations, and their broader social, economic, and environmental responsibilities within both advanced and emerging economies. The course is framed within a broad theoretical understanding of corporate governance, enabling students to critically investigate and address the governance challenges faced by modern corporations in a globalized world.

This subject can be taught either in a combination of onshore in Australia and offshore in a host country or solely onshore in Australia. Students enrolled in the subject with an offshore component must be available to travel for two weeks to the host country.  When no host country is available, this subject may be delivered wholly onshore (in Australia) only.  Students will be advised whether there is an offshore component of study and the availability of a host country in advance of opportunities to enrol.  When delivered offshore in a host country the teaching materials and tutorial activities will incorporate host country-specific issues and activities relevant to the topics covered in the subject.   Offshore delivery integrated with host country specific delivery provides the students with an immersive international and comparative experience, which will enhance their ability critically to engage with international law relevant to corporate governance. School Law Discipline Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7060 OR LAWS 7010 Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7027 AND LAWS 7057 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3014 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2824 Master of Laws or 2826 Juris Doctor. Students in program 4700 Graduate Diploma in Health Science or 4698 Master of Health Science in the T019 Health Services Management major should seek permission from the law school via a rule waiver to enrol in this subject. When the subject is delivered onshore (in Australia, at WSU campuses), no enrolment restrictions apply, but the students must have completed the relevant pre-requisite/co-requisite subjects.  When the subject is delivered offshore, the subject is not available for self-select enrolment. Intake in the subject will be restricted to expressions of interest. GPA and progression in the program will be considered, and the requisites must be met. Students must be able to travel to the offshore destination for a specified period of 2 weeks (The dates for the term of offer will be made available to students through the School of Law's regular communication channels). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically examine and compare key themes, theories, and models of contemporary corporate governance in Australia and globally.
Investigate emerging corporate governance issues in the context of social, economic, and environmental responsibilities.
Critically evaluate legal issues and materials through analysis and reflection.
Communicate complex legal concepts and governance issues to diverse audiences.
Create a sustained evidence-based research project. Subject Content Key themes, theories, and models of contemporary corporate governance.
Overview of the current framework of corporate governance in Australia and globally.  
Emerging and contemporary issues of governance of the modern corporation.
The governance of corporations in the broader context of the social, economic, and environmental responsibilities of corporations. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must meet any visa and medical requirements relevant for host country when subject is delivered offshore. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Proposal 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 3,00 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) International Governance, Testamur Major (T127) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)