Academic Handbook Current Edition EDUC 1010 Educational Psychology (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mitchell Liddle Opens in new window Description This subject highlights the interacting contributions of biology and environment to the development of children and explores how teachers' knowledge of this process must inform their pedagogy. Specifically, this subject examines classic and current theories and research evidence-base relating to the biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development of children and the implications of these for learning and classroom practice. It includes theoretical perspectives on the brain and learning including memory formation, retention and models of motivation, attention, and knowledge acquisition. This subject dispels common educational neuromyths and focuses on evidence-informed pedagogical practices that support learning, engagement, motivation, and wellbeing in culturally responsive classrooms. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor/Diploma of Education. School Education Discipline Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1011 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply an understanding of issues relating to children’s physical, cognitive, emotional, moral, and social development.
Analyse the major factors that influence students’ motivation and engagement.
Assess instructional strategies designed to support students’ learning and development.
Explain how children’s development is influenced by ecological systems.
Develop an action plan underpinned by relevant theory and research to address the wellbeing and development needs of a child experiencing difficulties at school.
Present effectively, using oral and written forms. Subject Content Recognition of context in child and adolescent development
Biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development across childhood and adolescence 
Cognitive processes (learning, attention, memory, executive functions), neuromyths, and implications for teaching and learning
Learning theories and evidence-based pedagogical practice
Motivation theories and implications for teaching and learning
Social and emotional wellbeing in culturally responsive classrooms Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 + Map 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 750 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 5 mins per student 20 N Group N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Education (EDUC)