Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1054 When Worlds Collide: European Empires and the World, c.1600-1950 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102768 Coordinator Brett Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject provides an historical investigation of the interaction between European empires - specifically the British and the Dutch - and the Americas and Asia-Pacific region, from 1600-1950. It examines the combination of domination and cultural negotiation between colonisers and colonised, which included, among other processes, the trans-Atlantic slave trade. It examines both how peoples were managed as imperial subjects, and how they responded to this management. The subject explores both the effect of imperial rule on the colonised, and of empire upon the colonisers. It draws upon historical literature from a variety of sources and perspectives, and from European and Asian history. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1022 - Global History CULT 1014 - The First Globalisation HUMN 1023 - Global History Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the historical experience of European colonialism, for both colonisers and colonised, with reference the British and Dutch Empires.
Describe processes for studying different cultures, Western and non-Western, in contact and collision.
Apply selected historiographic and ethnographic skills to the study of historical cultures.
Produce compelling arguments with primary and secondary sources. Subject Content NB. This content is modular and therefore: the content will be taught according to the available teaching staff?fs areas of expertise; not all topics will be included each semester; content will not necessarily be taught in the order it is listed below.
1. The origins of modern European empires: the British and the Dutch in context.
2. The early British Empire in the Atlantic and Caribbean
3. The British Empire and property: the case of John Locke Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 1,500 words (One submission, with 5 entries on topics from throughout the semester) 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 minutes 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Brett Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Brett Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Brett Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Ancient History, Minor (0262) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Ancient History Education, Major (0352) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)