Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 6001 IT Project Management Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mohammad Ahmadi Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide students with an opportunity to learn and apply the knowledge, values and skills of consultancy, project management, and research by undertaking an IT project. The subject prepares students on presenting project proposals in various ICT areas, project management, time management, communication skills, and the evolving legal, ethical, and social responsibilities of IT professionals. Students will work in teams under the supervision of a staff member, to plan and investigate their project. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Other Information Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 7017 - Professional Practice and Communication Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of systems analysis and design principles. Learning Outcomes Create project management documentation including business cases and proposals for IT projects following project management body of knowledge guidelines
Analyse issues and failures in IT project management
Manage project scope, quality and budget using project management methodology
Work with diverse team members and stakeholders to manage project schedules and resources using appropriate tools and techniques
Demonstrate research, writing and presentation skills relating to project management
Critically reflect on  professional practice skills, legal, ethical and social issues in the IT context
Communicate in a clear and convincing manner with diverse audiences using a range of formats Subject Content 1. Developing business cases for IT projects
2. Developing project proposals
3. Challenges and failures in IT project managements
4. Project management
5. Recent project management methodologies
6. Developing consultancy and research skills
7. Presentation skills and inter-personal skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 10 pages (for Part 1)   15 pages (for Part 2) 60 N Group N  Essay 800 words 10 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Group N  Report 1800 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mohammad Ahmadi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mohammad Ahmadi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Data Engineering (3802) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)