Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7004 Adolescent Development and Teaching Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102081 Coordinator Pegah Marandi Opens in new window Description From 2024, this subject is replaced by TEAC 7161 - Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching. This subject examines research and contemporary classroom practice relevant to the cognitive, physiological, and social/affective needs of adolescents to highlight the reciprocal effects that teaching has on adolescence and how in turn adolescence affects teaching practice. Emphasis is placed on the use of evidenced-based literature in examining adolescent-centred challenges to teaching and learning. Topics addressed include definitions of adolescence past, present and future, biological and cognitive milestones of adolescence, adolescents at-risk, secondary schooling fostering educational and general resilience in adolescents, and helping adolescents thrive. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in course 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary), 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM, 1652 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 1823 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) Dean's Scholars, 2804 Bachelor of Business (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 1843 Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 4742 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary), 6013 Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 6021 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) or 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary). In addition, students enrolled in 1652 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 1823 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) Dean's Scholars, 2804 Bachelor of Business (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 1843 Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) or 4742 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) must have passed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. 
Students enrolled in 6021 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) must have passed 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject.  
Students enrolled in 6013 Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) must have passed 180 credit points (150 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) must have passed 120 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate knowledge about issues relating to pre-teen and adolescent development in a diverse community.
Appraise how legislation, policy resources, school-based processes and system supports impact upon adolescent development.
Apply creative and critical insight into the processes and skills required to teach adolescents through the application of evidence-based principles.
Analyse the influence of teacher practices and the wider community on the behaviour, well-being and development of adolescents.
Assess and reflect upon ethical and legislative responsibilities for responding to adolescent development and propose classroom and school-wide strategies that promote well-being and resilience in adolescence.
Explain the role of teachers and schools in the promotion, prevention and early identification of at-risk and marginalised adolescents.
Demonstrate a critically informed approach to solving complex real-world problems in relation to teaching adolescents.
Demonstrate teaching strategies informed by evidence based principles to meet the diverse needs of adolescents. Subject Content 1. What is Adolescence?
2. Biological Foundations of Adolescence
3. Cognitive Foundations of Adolescence
4. Adolescents at-risk
5. Social-Emotional Foundations of Adolescence
6. Adolescence and Schooling
7. Building a Learning Portfolio for teaching adolescents
8. Helping adolescents thrive Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 50 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group N  Reflection 5 minutes 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)