Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7067 Cytopathology, Small Biopsy and Breast Pathology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401477 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description This subject introduces diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological and haemato-pathology. The unit provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the breast pathology. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7014 - Cytopathology and Small Biopsy Pathology 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate advanced diagnostic entities of non-gynaecological and gynaecological cytopathology and small biopsies.
Assess diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialty of breast pathology.
Critique the resources needed and technical requirements to reach the correct diagnosis in Breast Pathology.
Effectively disseminate research outcomes using highly developed communication skills. Subject Content Advanced non-gynaecological cytopathology
Advanced gynaecological cytopathology
Advanced small biopsy pathology
Breast pathology Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students need to meet the legislative requirements to be in a supervised specialist training role in Pathology, and hence be working clinically in a hospital/laboratory setting. If a student fails to meet these requirements they will not be allowed to enrol in the subject. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 2 hours 30 Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours 30 Y Individual Y  Case Study 20 cases
~50-100 words each 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tristan Rutland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Medicine (Pathology) (4750) Medical Studies (MEDI)