Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3019 Public Health Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401193 Coordinator Catharine Fleming Opens in new window Description This subject is an online equivalent of a workplace learning (placement) subject. You will engage in workplace activities with a public health organisation by using prepared resources, online discussion and videoconferencing. In this subject you will evaluate, develop and recommend public health policy or program change. The subject will involve the use of skills required to work in the public health arena; conducting needs analysis, collecting quantitative and qualitative data, facilitating stakeholder engagement, project development, management and evaluation, report writing and competent oral presentation skills, in an organisational setting. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 2016 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4656 - Bachelor of Health Science (Public Health) or 6000 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of public health, determinants of health, Australian health system. Learning Outcomes Evaluate current public health policy or program in an organisational setting
Determine policy or program effectiveness using a mixed methods approaches
Identify barriers to effective program implementation
Develop future recommendations for the public health project or policy
Communicate recommendations in oral and written form
Integrate evidence from a range of sources to support decision-making
Collaborate with organisational groups and individuals with professional behaviour Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Presentation Ongoing 10 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)