Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1016 Psychology: Behavioural Science Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101183 Coordinator Alina Ewald Opens in new window Description This subject expands on the nature and history of psychology as a scientific discipline by focussing on the study of the biological bases of human behaviour, memory, language and thought, sensation and perception, motivation, emotion and learning.  Research methods to scientifically study behaviour is introduced, including ethical research and practice with reference to diverse cultural contexts.
The subject provides a foundation of knowledge in Psychology which will support later study in Psychology and other behavioural, social and health sciences. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify major issues and debates in the nature and history of psychology. (APAC GAs 1.1, 1xii, 5) 2. Recognise the key theoretical concepts and major empirical findings in the domains of psychology covered in the subject. (APAC GAs 1.1, 1.1i, 1.3) 3. Evaluate the methods used by psychologists in their research, including  ethical practice in Indigenous and culturally diverse contexts. (APAC GAs 1.1i, 1.1Xi, 1.2, 1.4) 4. Communicate in a manner that conforms with current APA (American Psychological Association) Publication Guidelines. (APAC GA 1.1xii, 1.3) Subject Content Introduction to the Subject.
Biological Bases of Mental Life and Behaviour.
Research Methods: Foundations and Applications.
Genes and Environment.
Sensation and Perception.
Learning.
Attention and Memory.
Language and Thinking
Emotion and Motivation.
Psychopathology – Diagnosis.
Psychopathology – Treatment.
Health and Wellbeing.
Overview and Revision. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Participation 5 hours of research participation 5 N Individual N  Quiz 10 x 5 minute in-tutorial quizzes 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual N WSU Online Trimester 3 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz Plagiarism and referencing quiz (4 quizzes in total) S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Five hours of research participation 5 N Individual N  Quiz 4 quizzes 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Alina Ewald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Alina Ewald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Alina Ewald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alina Ewald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Mathematics (MATH) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)