Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 4012 First Nations Peoples' Access to Justice Clinic Credit Points 10 Coordinator Rebecca Dominguez Opens in new window Description In the First Nations Peoples’ Access to Justice Clinic you will gain real life lawyering experience, working under the supervision of the Clinic solicitor one day a week for the semester. You will work collaboratively with students from other disciplines on advice, casework, policy or project work shaped by community stakeholders and you will critically reflect on the role of law, and of lawyers, in advancing social justice for First Nations Peoples. You will work with individual clients on their legal and non legal issues to provide assistance to resolve these issues.  You will consolidate your existing legal knowledge, learn new areas of law, develop key professional and interpersonal skills, and the ability to work in inter-disciplinary collaborative teams. You will gain an understanding of your ethical and professional responsibilities as a lawyer in legal practice.  You will learn practical legal skills through the seminar program and assessment items as well as your participation in direct legal service delivery. 
As a condition of enrolment, students must be available to attend a twelve day placement. School Law Discipline Legal Practice Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 2015 AND
LAWS 2004 Restrictions To enrol in this subject, students must have successfully passed 180 Law subject credit points. This subject is not available for self-select enrolment. In-take will be by EOI to ensure students are aware of the cultural competencies expected and required to undertake the subject. Learning Outcomes Analyse issues faced by First Nations’ Peoples accessing justice in the Australian legal system. 
Examine legal and non-legal problems within prescribed areas of law including family law, care and protection, housing, criminal and civil law relating to Indigenous Peoples to enhance Indigenous access to justice.
Engage with cultural sensitivity in interdisciplinary therapeutic initiatives identified by stakeholder partners to facilitate access to justice of First Nations Peoples. 
Reflect on, and propose solutions, strategies and/or initiatives to promote First Nations’ Peoples access to justice and equality before the law.
Collaborate professionally with others within and across disciplines in addressing legal and non-legal problems faced by Indigenous Peoples including therapeutic approaches identified by stakeholder partners
Demonstrate professional skills to a level of competency expected of a junior legal professional
Demonstrate their understanding of their ethical and professional responsibility to individual clients in their client work. Subject Content Cultural competency and cultural safety
Reflective skills and practice
Legal Professional skills
Therapeutic and wholehearted lawyering jurisprudence
Access to justice issues impacting First Nations’ Peoples
Intersectional impact
Case studies
Pathways to promote First Nations Peoples’ access to justice and equality Note: Subject content will be taught by First Nations persons except for specific law related content. Work integrated learning Students gain real life lawyering experience, working under the supervision of the Clinic solicitor one day a week for the semester. Students work collaboratively with students from other disciplines on advice, casework, policy or project work shaped by community stakeholders Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students will need a Working With Children Check consent declaration if working with minors during their placement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 12 Days S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection (3 x 400 words) 1,200 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 2000 words S/U Y Group Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (2537) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2830) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (2501) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2828) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (2502) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2829) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (2538) Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2827) Law (LAWS) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833) ​Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2831)