Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2021 Imaging Science Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401171 Coordinator Robert Ebeyan Opens in new window Description Imaging science is a key area within the forensic sciences. This subject explores the application of imaging science and forensic photography practices to detect, preserve, enhance and examine forensic evidence. The subject focuses on optical and digital enhancement methods that provide essential non-destructive methods for evidence preservation and analysis. The subject provides the learner with necessary theoretical concepts of imaging science that underpin the practice of forensic photographic evidence. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1003 - Digital Forensic Photography Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate the conceptual relationship between the collection of images, their optical and digital enhancement and the production of data.
Evaluate the reliability of image data and how it may be considered in the context of scientific enquiry and the legal justice system.
Relate theoretical principles of the behaviour of light and image formation to image analysis.
Apply optical and digital imaging methods and theory for the enhancement of scientific evidence.
Explain imaging science principles such as photoluminescence, chemiluminescence, absorption, reflection and transmission modes of imaging in the context of forensic evidence. Subject Content Concepts of photographic evidence within the legal justice system
Principles of light and colour
Photographic optics and filters
Optical enhancement of physical evidence
Digital enhancement of photographic evidence
Specialised photographic techniques for forensic evidence
Evaluation of the photographic image
Current developments in research and technology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes 15 N Individual N  Quiz A series of short answer questions based on practical rotations 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Simulation 4 hours 35 N Group/Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Robert Ebeyan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)