Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2063 History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship in the Primary Years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102820 Coordinator Jennifer Curtis Opens in new window Description This subject provides opportunities for students to develop knowledge of the outcomes, subject matter, pedagogies and experiences that define the key learning area of History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship in primary (Kindergarten to Year 6) classrooms. Key concepts of change in family history, local history, and Australia's history and understanding Australia as a Nation are explored. In Geography, concepts that develop a sense of curiosity about environments, peoples, cultures and place, are a priority. In Civics and Citizenship, the focus is on relationships between the individual and the state.? The values and mutual responsibilities and obligations for civil, political and social participation in Australian society are also explored. These areas enable students to develop their own content knowledge and understandings, skills and dispositions necessary for planning, programming and teaching. This subject promotes teaching strategies that prepare primary children to be informed and effective change agents. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explore the disciplines, theories, pedagogies and Cross-Curriculum-Priorities that underpin the learning area of History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship in learning design.
Apply the learning principles and cross-curriculum-priorities that underlie teaching History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship in the primary years.
Design a sequence of learning and detailed lesson plans using knowledge of the NSW HSIE and other curriculum areas.
Identify Aboriginal perspectives embedded in the History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship for teaching the NSW HSIE key learning area.
Reflect on personal exploration of History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship K-6 and practices in relation to place-based and project-based learning in History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship K-6.
Apply ICT, literacy demands and engaging pedagogical approaches in design of lessons. Subject Content 1. The NSW History K-10 syllabus and Geography K-10 syllabus with a focus on Kindergarten (1st year of schooling) ? Year 6
2. Inquiry process, outdoor learning, place-based and project-based learning
3. Historical and Geographical skills including ethnographic reports and cartographic mapping
4. Cross-Curriculum Priorities with a focus on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples and Histories
5. Literacy and Information Communication Technology demands for teaching History, Geography, Civics and Citizenship. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Viva Voce 3-minute oral recording and a 500 word report 15 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,400 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Curtis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)