Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3007 Illustrating Popular Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102271 Coordinator Ramin Ebadi Opens in new window Description This subject explores the powerful qualities of illustration when used as a visual communication strategy in the design of popular culture: within an advertising campaign and as social commentary through editorial illustration. The potential of a range of illustrative styles, mediums and techniques, will be explored through experimentation with a variety of visual strategies that utilize lateral thinking, linked to the design of professional concepts, developmental processes and media considerations. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1011 Equivalent Subjects DESN 2008 - Illustration Advertising and Editorial Assumed Knowledge An ability to use the computer programs "In-Design, Photoshop, and Illustrator" in a Macintosh computer lab. Learning Outcomes Implement lateral thinking approaches to illustrative composition, style, technique and media to create illustration for specific design contexts.
Employ research findings in the development of a design concept.
Demonstrate an understanding of the interrelationship of the concept, client and target audience of an advertising campaign through illustrative design for specific publishing contexts.
Reflect on the effectiveness of illustrative communication strategies used in an advertising campaign.
Explain the design strategy and method of communication of the content of a range of editorial illustrations.
Explain how visual strategies such as metaphor, satire, symbolism and irony are used in editorial illustration.
Demonstrate the development of professional accountability, through effective time management and participation in critical discussion in feedback, on project work. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Visual work,  500 word research report 50 N Individual Y  Applied Project Visual work and 250 word analysis 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ramin Ebadi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)