Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 1007 Engineering Computing (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700106 Coordinator Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window Description Engineering computing is an introduction to using computation to solve real problems. The subject also aims to instil sound principles of program design that can be utilised in many subjects throughout the students' course. The basic elements and structures of a high level language are taught. Students are exposed to numerous engineering problems and are encouraged to implement solutions using an algorithmic approach. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ELEC 1006 - Engineering Computing ELEC 1008 - Engineering Computing (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge in use of computers and Windows operating system. Learning Outcomes Utilise a typical software development environment.
Develop solutions to problems using an algorithmic approach.
Apply data structures of a common programming language to translate an algorithm into a coded program.
Implement basic features of data manipulation and graphing using a spreadsheet program, such as EXCEL. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes (approx.) 15 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours (approx.) 30 N Individual N  Report Approximately between 50-100 lines of command code – 3 weeks duration 15 N Individual N  Applied Project 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC)