Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7155 Professional Experience 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102793 Coordinator Grant Jones Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to enable education students to proactively engage in real-life educational settings to learn and enhance their professional development as a future teacher. This second professional experience subject provides 30 of the 60 required professional experience days. This provides you with an opportunity to explore ranges of learning activities that occurs inside and outside the classrooms and the roles of the teaching and non-teaching staff within the school. You will also have opportunity to reflect on the teaching and learning cycle and refine your competencies as a beginning teacher under the supervision of qualified educators. This subject includes the TPA (Teaching Performance Assessment) which is designed to assess Teacher Education Students teaching as measured by the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the Graduate level. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7154 Co-requisite(s) - Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7110 Professional Practice II TEAC 7098 Primary Professional Practice 2 TEAC 7105 Professional Experience II TEAC 7137 Secondary Professional Practice 2 TEAC 7138 Secondary Professional Practice 2 - STEM Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary), 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM.
Students enrolled in 1714 must have successfully completed 110 credit points.
Students enrolled in 1848 must have successfully completed 110 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of student diversity, current research, quality teaching, Australian Curriculum and NSW Syllabus documents to competently plan, deliver, assess and evaluate lesson sequences and units of work.
Implement a wide range of differentiated lessons using appropriate pedagogies to engage diverse learners and address learning goals.
Propose ideas/solutions to enhance safe and challenging learning environments based on relevant theories, policies and practices.
Utilise appropriate resources including ICTs and other technologies to foster students’ engagement and to support learning.
Communicate ethically and professionally with students, peers, staff, families and community.
Identifies a range of appropriate professional associations and how they can contribute to professional learning and improve teaching practices to support student learning.
Compiles a range of strategies to build and maintain teacher wellbeing and resilience.
Use evidence-based approaches to reflect and evaluate their professional practice that demonstrate the achievement of the professional teaching standards for graduates. Subject Content Teaching and Planning Cycle- using data and assessment evidence about students to inform lesson planning, assessment and the provision of feedback to students.
Critical self-reflection with reference to the Australian Professional Standards for Graduate Teachers.
Connecting research with practice to inform planning and teaching.
Pedagogical knowledge to support teaching and learning decision making.
Essential skills and knowledge as a teaching professional including, professional identity, registering as a teacher, professional associations and professional learning.
Teacher wellbeing and resilience. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of volunteer and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
 i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
 ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
 iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link
b) Students will need to:
 i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
 ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
 iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT)
a) Students will need to:
i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
b) Students will need to:
i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Primary), or the Master of Teaching (Secondary). 5. Students must satisfactorily complete the National Literacy and Numeracy TEST prior to undertaking the final Professional Experience placement in this program. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days  S/U Y Individual Y  Case Study Teaching Performance Assessment Case Study Report including evidence of 3 teaching events. S/U Y Individual Y  Case Study 15 minutes S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Humphries Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Humphries Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Grant Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Grant Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Grant Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Grant Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)