Academic Handbook Current Edition CHEM 3012 Nanochemistry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300895 Coordinator Robert Kaziro Opens in new window Description The subject covers basic theory of surface chemistry, latest technologies of surface depositions and industrial and commercial applications of nanomaterials and nanopowders. Upon successful completion, the students will achieve an in-depth understanding of techniques of preparation of nanomaterials and nanopowders that includes plasma arching, chemical vapour deposition, electrodeposition, sol-gel synthesis, ball milling and the use of natural particles. Technical aspects of process control on the microstructure and properties of coatings will be discussed. Case studies of applications of nanopowders and nanomaterials such as biomedical implants, insulators, high power magnets, molecular sieves, supercomputers, jet engines and other industrial applications will be pursued. School Science Discipline Chemical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CHEM 1003 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6162 - Nanochemistry LGYA 6030 - Nanopowders and Nanomaterials Assumed Knowledge An understanding of the content of the subjects Nanotechnology 1 and Nanotechnology 2 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Explain the theory of surface chemistry, latest technologies of surface depositions and industrial and commercial applications of nanomaterials and nanopowders.
Explain the techniques of preparation of nanomaterials and nanopowders that includes plasma arching, chemical vapour deposition, electrodeposition, sol-gel synthesis, ball milling and the use of natural particles.
Conduct case studies of applications of nanopowders and nanomaterials such as biomedical implants, insulators, high power magnets, molecular sieves, supercomputers, jet engines and other industrial applications.
Synthesize nanoparticles by electrodeposition of gold and/or zinc oxide nanoparticles and analyse products by atomic force microscope. Subject Content Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Chemical Sciences (CHEM)