Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7020 International Environmental Law and Policy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200907 Coordinator Maria Gurlica Opens in new window Description This subject provides an overview of international environmental law and policy. It investigates legal and policy measures for managing and protecting the environment in a sustainable manner. The subject will begin by exploring the economic, political, and legal concepts relevant to international environmental legal regimes. It will then apply these concepts to concrete regimes designed to deal with specific international environmental problems, such as climate change, ozone depletion, air pollution, hazardous waste, freshwater resources, marine pollution, world heritage, human rights, biodiversity and habitat loss. The subject focuses principally on the dynamic of treaties, negotiations, and state and non-state actors in the international arena. Special attention will be given to 21st Century environmental problems. Appropriateness of the present environmental legal regimes and challenges for the future will also be mooted in the subject. School Law Discipline International Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7057 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 2824 Master of Laws or 2826 Juris Doctor to enrol in this subject. Students in programs 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies should seek permission from the law school via a rule waiver to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental principles and concepts relating to the protection and preservation of the global environment.
Critically evaluate principal institutions and operation of the international legal system and demonstrate understanding of key actors, sources of law and dispute resolution processes.
Apply international environmental management principles and concepts to contemporary environmental issues and in problem solving.
Undertake independent research and analysis that demonstrates an understanding of the application of international environmental law in a defined context, that is clear, analytical and appropriately structured and referenced.
Make some assessment of where international environmental law and policy can be expected to develop in the future. Subject Content Sources and Development of International Environmental Law and Policy
International Environmental Management Principles and Concepts
The Changing Nature of International Environmental Law and Policy
The Role of International Institutions
Climate Change Regime
Ozone Depletion Regime
International Control of Hazardous Waste
State Responsibility
Marine Environment
Control of Marine Pollution
International Watercourses
Protection of the Polar Regions
Conservation of Biodiversity
Protection of Cultural and Natural Heritage
Human Rights and Environment
Trade and Environment
Strengths and Weaknesses of International Environmental Regimes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual N  Participation On going 10 N Individual N  Presentation 30 minutes (including 10 minutes for questions) 45 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 35 N Individual N Summer On-site The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual N  Participation Onoing throughout semester 10 N Individual N  Presentation 30 minutes in total 45 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maria Gurlica Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)