Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7008 Philosophy of Nature Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102619 Coordinator Dennis Schmidt Opens in new window Description This subject examines questions and problems concerning the concept of nature or 'naturalness'.  What does it mean to call something 'natural' and how are natural things to be distinguished from artificial things or things that are human made? How does technology influence our understanding of nature? What are the ethical implications arising from human relations with the natural world? As well learning time-honoured answers to such questions, students will appreciate the practical relevance of philosophical theorising about nature. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advanced and integrated knowledge of concepts and principles concerning nature, broadly construed.
Explain theories and methods in metaphysics and the study of being.
Be able to outline arguments and the main theses in key philosophical texts.
Critically evaluate complex information, perspectives, theories and sources.
Demonstrate knowledge of the research principles and methods appropriate to the philosophy of nature to address contemporary philosophical problems and debates. Subject Content One or more thinkers and philosophical movements in the philosophy of nature still exerting influence on contemporary philosophy.
Early modern philosophy, Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, Phenomenology, Existentialism, Heidegger, Twentieth Century philosophy of nature.
Specific thinkers or movements, with reference to contemporary philosophical debates. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,600 (4x400 words) 40 N Individual   Essay 5,000 words 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)