Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7029 Master of Social Science Thesis Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102040 Coordinator Kamel Taoum Opens in new window Description This is a 40 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (20 credit points in each term). This yearlong subject requires the completion of a research thesis and associated activities. The purpose of this subject is the completion of a research study building on the research subjects so far completed in the core subjects of the Master of Social Science. Students will work with a supervisor to frame, conceptualise, conduct and complete a research study and present a final research thesis. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 7036 AND
HUMN 7045 Co-requisite(s) HUMN 7001 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1770 Master of Social Science or 1712 Master of Planning and have successfully completed 80 credit points including subjects 102175 Research in the Social Sciences & 102179 Theories of the Social. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advanced knowledge and critical analysis skills in reviewing relevant literature
Formulate a successful research proposal for high level independent research thesis
Identify and apply a comprehensive understanding of the purpose and the requirements for ethics approval
Successfully argue the case for the methodology and theoretical perspective for a research project
Apply their skills and knowledge in a sustained program of critical reading, research activities and research writing
Present the research at a professional standard to an academic audience
Exemplify advanced academic analytical and written skills in the completion of the final written research thesis Subject Content Supervision contract with an academic supervisor
Seminars and workshops conducted from time-to-time to support completion of the research thesis
Literature review
Research proposal ? research question, methodology, research design, collection and analysis methods
Ethics application and clearance, as necessary
Research activities to complete the thesis
Writing activities to complete the thesis
Written and seminar presentation of the research findings and report Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 3,000 words 20 N Individual   Proposal 2,000 words 10 N Individual   Theory & Methodology Discussion paper 2,500 words 15 N Individual   Seminar presentation  & Attendance 20 minutes 5 N Individual   Thesis 15,000 words 50 Y Individual Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)