Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7015 Principles of Vascular Sonography 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401292 Coordinator Donna Oomens Opens in new window Description In Autumn 2024, this subject replaced by RADI 5001 - Physics in Diagnostic Ultrasound. In this subject, students will study two essential areas of knowledge for vascular sonographers: I. cardiovascular anatomy and physiology and II. ultrasound physics. The normal anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular system, and the key physics principles utilized in ultrasound imaging will comprise the majority of the subject content. This subject provides an essential basis for future study in the Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) RADI 7011 - Practice of Vascular Sonography 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4765 Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy, physiology and mathematics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the normal features of cardiovascular anatomy and its development (CLO 1)
Analyse the central principles related to the transmission and interaction of ultrasound with human tissue and how ultrasound images are displayed. (CLO 2)
Apply self-directed learning strategies to enhance professional learning in vascular sonography (CLO 5) Subject Content - cardiovascular Anatomy and physiology I
1. Features of the cardiovascular system and its development
2. Arterial and venous anatomy of the head, neck and upper limbs
3. Arterial and venous anatomy of the abdomen and lower limbs
- Ultrasound physics I
1. Introduction to ultrasound instrumentation
2. Pulsed Ultrasound
3. Doppler principles
4. Haemodynamics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 60 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 120 minutes 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography (4765) Radiography (RADI)