Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3010 Health Psychology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101193 Coordinator Tania Perich Opens in new window Description Health Psychology is a branch of psychology concerned with the inter-relationship between psychological factors and physical health.  It addresses such issues as the possible role of psychological characteristics in health maintenance and promotion, and in the development of illness.  Other aspects include reactions to illness, the contribution of psychology to treatment, and explicit means by which health-relevant behaviours might be modified.  This subject provides an introduction to Health Psychology and covers theoretical and research issues, the nature and management of stress and pain, issues concerning the receipt of health care and a selection of specific health problems. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1016 AND
BEHV 1018 Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5004 - Health Psychology Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of core concepts of personality, biological, social and developmental psychology and research methods is desirable. Learning Outcomes Recognise the basic principles, theories and methodologies of health psychology (APAC Graduate Attribute 1).
 Apply knowledge of basic health psychology principles models and theories to a range of health and well-being issues across cultural contexts (APAC GA 2).
Demonstrate skills in the critical evaluation of empirical literature and theoretical positions in health psychology (APAC GA 3). Subject Content The nature and methods of studying health psychology and human behaviour in respect of health across cultural contexts.
Stress and health: Defining and measuring stress, understanding stress and illness and coping with stress.
Illness and help seeking behaviour.
Understanding pain.
Adhering to medical advice and compliance.
Investigating health specific issues which may include reproductive health, mental health, chronic conditions and appetitive behaviours.
Health promotion. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Short Answer 350 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Tania Perich Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Tania Perich Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tania Perich Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology Extension, Minor (0186)