Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 3009 Power Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300771 Coordinator Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a global picture of electrical energy systems. Through practical exercises students will examine and analyse the basic processes of generation, transmission and distribution, power system analysis and planning as well as power systems operation under steady-state and transient conditions. Various aspects of power system operation including harmonics, fundamentals of protection, environmental issues and renewable energy systems are also covered in this subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 2010 or ELEC 3011 Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of power frequency devices and systems. Learning Outcomes Summarize and critique the operation of the power supply system grid under normal and transient conditions.
Complete basic power systems analysis.
Identify and utilize the notions and implications of power system fault levels and stability.
Explain Harmonics and their causes, power factor including harmonics.
Explain some of the environmental issues associated with energy conversion systems.
Identify and critique alternative energy sources. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 hours (per practical) 25 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035)