Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7005 Art Therapy: Histories, Theories, Groups Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 101303 Coordinator Patricia Parish Opens in new window Description This subject explores theories and practical experiences relevant to art therapy.  Consideration is given to the major theoretical frameworks of art therapy, its historical development and group processes.  There is a major experiential component which provides practical experience in exploring the process of art therapy by working in a group situation led by an experienced art therapist/s.  The process will be explored and examined in relation to the self, to the self as artist and to therapeutic practice. School Social Sciences Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 7428 - Art Therapy Theory and Practice 1 LGYA 9676 - Art Therapy Theory and Practice 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4595 Master of Art Therapy or 4617 Master of Social Science. Refer to the subject Outline for attendance requirements for experiential group sessions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the histories and practices of art therapy and its development as a profession, with particular critical attention to the postcolonial Australian context.
Describe and compare the major theoretical frameworks of art therapy.
Explore and analyse the connections between theory and practice in art therapy
Practice art making skills and techniques and reflectively analyse the centrality of, and demonstrate an understanding of their significance within art therapy.
Show awareness of the self in one's own art making and reflectively analyse the centrality of this to the practice of art psychotherapy.
Recognise and investigate the processes in art therapy in groups.
Practice and reflect on interpersonal sensitivity and self-awareness in the experiential training group. Subject Content 1. Historical overview of the development of art Therapy in Australia, Europe & North America
2. The history of art therapy and its relationship to psychiatry, education and the visual arts
3. Analysis of art therapy in a neocolonial context
4. Consideration of art therapy as clinical practice
5. The relationship between theory and practice
6. Exploration of the relationship between art practice & art therapy
7. Exploration of art therapy group process
8. Art making practice within a group experiential learning context Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Essay 2,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 3,000 words 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Patricia Parish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Art Therapy (exit only) (1700) Graduate Diploma in Art Therapy (exit only) (4596) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Other Creative Arts (CART)