Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3017 Understanding needs within Indigenous Australian Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102411 Coordinator Scott Avery Opens in new window Description In this unit, students build on their knowledge and experience to identify and service the needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. Students will utilise their research and cultural competency skills to create a community profile and project brief within an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community. This will enable students to effectively integrate theory, practice and culture to understand Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community needs. Students will also examine the role of an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Professional in Community Development settings. School Social Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1759 - Understanding Indigenous Australian Community Service LGYA 1678 - Learning through Indigenous Australian Community Service (Block Mode) WELF 3008 - Learning through Indigenous Australian Community Service (Day Mode) Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study. Students must be enrolled in the 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development (BCSD) program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate ability to create a culturally competent community profile using research knowledge and skills.
Demonstrate ability to create a culturally competent project brief using research knowledge and skills. Subject Content 1. Understanding needs of Indigenous peoples.
2. Researching, planning and creating a community profile.
3. Planning and creating a project brief.
4. Overview of cultural competency skills and their application in workplace documents.
5. Understanding the complexities of the role of an Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander professional in community development. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task: Community Profile 1,500 words 50 N Individual   Professional Task: Project Brief 1,500 words 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF)