Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1012 Music Performance 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102554 Coordinator David Cashman Opens in new window Description Students will extend their performance skills acquired in Music Performance 1 through participating in three modularised workshops. The first two workshops will run in parallel with each other and will be rotated: module 1 will focus on free and notated improvisation; and module 2 will focus on choral performance. Module 3 will extend the skills of reading and arranging music in students' preferred performing media (voice or instrument). In this module, they will perform set technical tasks (such as scales and arpeggios), adding to the skills acquired in Music Performance 1 and, continuing to work in small groups, they will arrange and perform one set piece of music from a basic notated score, and choose, arrange and perform another piece that is different from the music performed in Music Performance 1. They will perform one piece chosen from modules 1, 2, or 3 in a public venue on campus. The subject will also introduce music business skills, such as how to publicise and mount a performance, and how to upload a sample of work to YouTube. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1008 OR
PERF 1010 Equivalent Subjects PERF 1013 - Music Performance 2 Notated and Free Musics PERF 1007 - Free and Notated Music Performance Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students can perform at a level (determined either by having successfully completed any pre-requisite subjects) or through an audition process where they demonstrate musical fluency on chosen instrument/voice/other media. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: perform music in large and small group combinations
create improvisations in free and notated traditions
perform music as a member of a choral group
demonstrate proficiency in the performance of set technical tasks
implement strategies for arranging a set piece from a notated score
rehearse and perform in small groups a set piece from a score
upload your performance to YouTube
write a reflective essay about your performance uploaded to YouTube
perform the music created in one of the three modules in a public venue
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in attending the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content 1. Improvisations in free and notated traditions, and their techniques and approaches
2. Reflect on the learning undertaken and develop ways to include this in the student's personal musical practice
3. Rehearsals and performance in small groups of set technical tasks, such as scales and arpeggios
4. Undertake a live performance
5. Arrange and rehearse music chosen by students in groups. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 5 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical 7 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical 10 minutes 40 N Group/Individual N  Literature Review 4 x 400 words each 20 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Cashman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Performance Studies, Minor (0024) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music Studies, Major (0343) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Performing Arts (PERF)