Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7041 Administrative Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201056 Coordinator Michael Head Opens in new window Description This subject examines the legal principles regulating the exercise of power by the executive arm of government in its various manifestations; ministers, government departments and officials, regulatory bodies, tribunals, inferior courts and local councils. This is examined in the context of Australian constitutional arrangements and it is taught in the context of constitutional themes and principles that underpin the law in this area. The exercise of power examined includes decision making, the exercise of discretion, delegated legislation and the decision making procedure of the major administrative tribunals. The focus is on the principles of judicial review developed by the courts, standing and remedies. There is also an examination of major non-judicial avenues of review by the major tribunals such as the Commonwealth Administrative Appeals Tribunal, and the Ombudsman. The subject will also examine Freedom of Information legislation. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7057 Government and Public Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3081 Administrative Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse principles of administrative law, procedure and policy, and their relationship to broader social, economic and political contexts;
Provide advice to resolve problems that indicate a deep comprehension of administrative law;
Evaluate relevant case law and legislation using a range of legal research tools and methods;
Evaluate ethical issues arising in administrative law practice and the professional responsibilities of lawyers in maintaining a just and civilised society. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Ongoing throughout semester 10 N Individual Y  Professional Task 3,500 words 45 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours invigilated 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Michael Head Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Michael Head Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michael Head Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Australian Migration Law Studies, minor (0346) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)