Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 1019 Paramedicine Foundations 2 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Louis Shabella Opens in new window Description In this Subject, students develop additional skills around patient assessment and the management of basic medical and trauma conditions. Students also learn to work in clinical teams in a range of environments and focus on the provision of person-centred care. Students continue to explore the role and context of paramedicine within the health system including existing and emerging paramedic practice environments. Students will have the opportunity to practice new and existing skills. Students become oriented to the out of hospital setting during clinical placements in the community preparing them for an emergency ambulance clinical placement in the following semester School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) 401481 Paramedicine Foundations 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4790 Bachelor of Paramedicine Learning Outcomes 1.Apply basic clinical decision making to introductory paramedic scenarios.
2.Utilise effective communication skills with the client, peers, health and academic staff and demonstrate person-centred practice
3.Explain and apply basic principles of assessment and management of medical and trauma conditions.
4.Interpret basic findings arising from patient assessment, physical examination and history taking.
5.Describe the process of recognising, preparing and checking common paramedic medications. 
6.Engage in a range of practice environments safely as part of a paramedic team
7.Employ appropriate communication, person-centred care and professional practice in a community healthcare setting. Subject Content 1. Clinical assessment of the patient in an out of hospital environment
2. Basic management of medical and trauma conditions
3. Medication safety
4. Patient epidemiology 
5. Introduction to paramedicine research
6. Basic applied decision making
7. Safe participation in a paramedic team in time-critical environments Placements (spread across the semester) - Supervised, 3 days of placement with non-emergency patient transport ambulance crew Work integrated learning The Paramedicine Program is working with placement partners to implement a range of resources to assist preceptors in WIL supervision. A structured framework of activities is available to preceptors to assist them in achieving learning outcomes. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this unit, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Students must hold a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Course Requirements
Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your course.
Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements
To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your course, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet.
NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you:
1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one
2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history
3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements
4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff.
International students have additional requirements: the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements
Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as
- If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements
- If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements.
- NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire course.
- Current approved first aid certificate valid for your entire course - approved course providers can be found at the Government Training website
- http://training.gov.au
- Other non-health related requirements.
Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page. https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students are expected to have uniform and equipment as per Paramedicine Program Uniform Guidelines. Uniform must be worn as directed by program and worn on placement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 750 words 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam Multiple procedures and skills 40 Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 1 x 60-minute quizzes 40 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 3 Days S/U Y Individual N Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Louis Shabella Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Other Health (HLTH)