Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1005 Introduction to Speech Pathology Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401300 Coordinator Aarifah Bhatti Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the profession of speech pathology, including the regulatory, ethical and legal frameworks which underpin speech pathology practice within the context of the changing health environment. Students will explore and reflect on their developing professional identity with reference to the Professional Standards for Speech Pathologists in Australia, including the domains of professional conduct, reflection and lifelong learning, and speech pathology practice. In addition, students will have opportunities to develop core skills in communication and professional interaction, including gathering, analysing and reflecting on information through a process of clinical reasoning. Students will also develop introductory level skills in core speech pathology processes such as safe and effective observation, documentation and therapeutic communication through practical activities with academic staff and other students. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology or 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the professional standards, regulatory requirements, and ethical guidelines for speech pathology in Australia.
Discuss the role of the speech pathologist, in different service delivery contexts in Australia, in optimising communication, swallowing and mealtime experiences for individuals, families and communities.
Discuss the factors that contribute to the development of professional identity as a speech pathologist and health professional.
Critically reflect on the professional values and competencies that underpin speech pathology practice.
Critically observe and record communication interactions.
Apply communication skills to effectively communicate with peers and academic staff
Demonstrate introductory speech pathology skills in a safe and effective manner within a peer learning environment Subject Content 1.The speech pathology profession and regulatory frameworks, including Professional Standards, Code of Ethics and National Code of Conduct
2.Speech Pathologists and their role and contribution to optimising communication and mealtime experiences for individuals, families and communities
3.Foundations of clinical reasoning
4.The current and emerging scope of practice in Speech Pathology
5.Respect and responsivity when collaborating with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
6.Communication, swallowing and mealtime management across the lifespan.
7.Holistic frameworks for working with individuals, families and communities.
8.Professional conduct, reflection and lifelong learning, speech pathology practice standards and elements of practice
9.Introduction to clinical observation, recording, and analysis.
10.Introduction to speech pathology practice requirements. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 minutes and time required to complete mandatory NSW Health requirements S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 5 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Aarifah Bhatti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)