Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7032 Diversity, Social Justice and Schooling Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102083 Coordinator Loshini Naidoo Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the socio-political, economic and cultural milieu that shapes teacher and student subjectivities. It explores diversity, social justice, equity, and schooling through the multi-layered operation of social power and privilege. It advances students’ understanding of how social and cultural difference in Australia has shaped contemporary education, schooling and cross-cultural relationships. In particular, the subject examines diversity as a social construct that has promoted the differential treatment of particular social and cultural groups and served as the basis for response to subsequent social and cultural inequities by these groups. The subject engages students in critical analysis essential for professional pedagogical practice in education for diversity and social justice in Australia and beyond. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7023 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary), 1651 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary), 1822 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean's Scholars, 6019 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary), 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary), 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM, 1652 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 1823 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) Dean's Scholars, 2804 Bachelor of Business (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 2786 Bachelor of Business, 1843 Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), , 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary), 4791 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 6013 Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) or 6021 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary). Students enrolled in 1651, 1652, 1822, 1823, 2804, 1843 or 4791 must have passed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) must have completed 120 Credit Points. Students enrolled in 6019 and 6021 must have passed 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6013 must have passed 180 credit points (150 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically examine the impact of diversity and difference on students' educational outcomes and experiences of schooling.
Develop knowledge and understanding of the impact of social constructions of childhood and youth on learning, teaching, and children and young people’s experiences of schooling. 
Explore how varying philosophies of teaching and learning can impact teaching practices and educational outcomes.
Investigate the relationships between power, privilege, learning environments and differential educational outcomes for marginalised and non-marginalised groups.
Evaluate their professional practice as teachers by connecting their knowledge of diverse groups (visible and non-visible) to their pedagogic approaches.
Examine the importance of theory, literature, and research in understanding the challenges of diverse groups (visible and non-visible) in society.
Evaluate the relationship between the home environment and literacy at school for the improved learning outcomes of diverse groups of students.
Critically assess how educational policies and legislation influence social justice principles that inform and guide professional practice and judgments as teachers. Subject Content How is diversity defined in primary and secondary school contexts? What is the significance of diversity and social justice and equity for Australia as expressed through the principles and practices of teaching and learning for equity and access, knowledge, and governmentality? 
How does diversity relate to the concepts of power; culture; religion; ‘Whiteness’; White privilege; subjectivity; discourse; ethnicity; race; knowledge; discipline; embodiment; surveillance; silence; normalisation; punishment; habitus; capital; field; gender; sexuality; socio-economic status; globalization; literacy and language? 
What are the complexities facing educators in a 21st Century context? How do capitalist market economy agendas and increasing practices of standardization alongside social justice and ethical issues affect educators? Why is lifelong learning for all important? How effective are pedagogical approaches such as adaptive ability, creativity; critical thinking, critical pedagogy, culturally responsive teaching, and inquiry based learning and active citizenship? 
What is the impact of government legislation and educational policies on social justice for linguistic minority students? How do legislation and policies affect English as an Additional Language or Dialect (EALD) teaching programs? How is English taught in school contexts and how is English language acquisition measured and assessed? 
What are professional understandings about current practices pertaining to home and community languages? What challenges do teachers face in relation to marginalised students? How can teachers develop and establish partnerships with parents and the community? 
Are there any research-based strategies for teaching second language learners in the context of the mainstream classroom? What are the implications for teaching established by research? 
What existing policy and legislation pertains to school-based issues including access and equity, multiculturalism, migration, citizenship, anti-discrimination and human rights? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 25 minutes 30 N Group Y  Quiz 10 minutes per quiz 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Loshini Naidoo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Loshini Naidoo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Loshini Naidoo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Zainab Mourad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Education Studies - Primary English Teaching Specialisation, Major (0187) Education Studies - Primary Mathematics Teaching Specialisation, Major (0188) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189) Education Studies - Secondary Teaching, Minor (0267) Education Studies – Primary Teaching, Minor (0296) Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1716) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Teacher Education (TEAC)