Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7025 Applied Cardiac Sonography Credit Points 10 Coordinator Paul Stoodley Opens in new window Description Applied Cardiac Sonography provides students with discipline specific knowledge and skills. The subject is comprised of three modules: 1. Stress and Emergency Echocardiography, which predominantly involves the application of echocardiography to evaluate ischaemic heart disease, 2. Advanced Echocardiographic Technologies, that includes myocardial strain and 3-D imaging, and 3. Cardiac Interventions and Other Imaging Modalities, which involves the comparison of different interventions and imaging modalities. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7008 - Principles of Cardiac Sonography 3 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Utilise imaging skills and knowledge to ensure the appropriate application of cardiac ultrasound in discipline specific and modified environments
2.  Evaluate cardiac anatomy and function via the suitable application of advanced technologies and modified imaging protocols
3. Appraise other cardiac imaging technologies and their supplementary role to ultrasound in clinical decision making Subject Content The subject has three modules: 1. Stress and Emergency Echocardiography 2. Advanced Echocardiographic Technologies 3. Cardiac Interventions and Other Imaging Modalities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 2 scans 40 N Individual N  Literature Review 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Poster 750 words 20 N Group/Individual Y Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Cardiac Sonography (4743) Master of Cardiac Sonography (4751) Radiography (RADI)