Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3013 Creative Writing Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100859 Coordinator Anna Gibbs Opens in new window Description This subject extends students beyond the writing of individual stories and poems into larger areas of creative writing, such as the discontinuous narrative, the novella, and the cycle of related poems and/or stories.  It involves students in the process of developing a major project from an initial set of ideas, through the stages of drafting to a "finished" product, using workshop techniques, individual interviews and peer critiquing.  It aims to give each student some experience of a relationship with readers (fellow students) and an editor (the tutor). School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge It is highly desirable that students should have successfully completed one of the following Level 2 subjects: 100896 -Writing Fiction, 100856 - Creative Non-Fiction or 101011 - Writing Poetry. Learning Outcomes Critically examine a range of published texts drawing upon their awareness of the variety of approaches and techniques employed in extended pieces of creative writing.
Write a developing series of drafts leading to the completion of an extended creative work.
Employ writing and editing skills through the workshop process.
Build capacities for critiquing and evaluating their own work through the development of editorial relationships.
Express themselves clearly, forcefully and effectively - to the level of their capacity. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Writing exercises 1000 words 30 N Individual   Major writing draft 1250 words 30 N Individual   Major writing final 2500 words 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)