Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3015 Security Analysis and Business Valuation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200921 Coordinator Mohammad Tavakoli Baghdadabad Opens in new window Description This subject analyses companies from a fundamental perspective in order to derive an intrinsic value for securities. The focus is on the attempt by active investors to identify mispriced securities using publicly available information, company reports and financial market information. The analytical techniques of financial statement analysis (e.g. fundamental analysis, free cash flow analysis and pro-forma analysis) and the issue of the "reliability" and "quality" of publicly available information are discussed and explored. Those contemplating careers in investment banking, financial consulting, trust funds, superannuation funds, hedge funds, and brokerage firms will find this applied subject both useful and interesting. School Business Discipline Investment and Securities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ECON 2002 Assumed Knowledge Knowledge acquired in the corporate financial management and fundamentals of accounting. Learning Outcomes Collect and critically analyse financial and non-financial company and industry information.
Assess the implications of the macroeconomic environment, industry structure and operations and strategies of a business for its future prospects.
Construct and apply various valuation models to value security and the business.
Critically assess the valuations of a business and of its debt and equity based on discounted cash flow analysis.
Classify the concepts and limitations of traditional valuation approaches. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2000 words 20 N Group Y  Intra-session Exam 90 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Mohammad Tavakoli Baghdadabad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Heath Spong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mohammad Tavakoli Baghdadabad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mohammad Tavakoli Baghdadabad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC)