Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 3014 Financial Mathematics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301380 Coordinator Rehez Ahlip Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to stochastic calculus and relevant simulation techniques applied to modern finance and the mathematical modelling of financial markets.  The core topics developed in the subject are the Ito stochastic integral, Ito's formula, and basic stochastic differential equations, as well as computer simulation techniques with emphasis on Monte Carlo simulations.  Some mathematical background is assumed, but the subject will cover any necessary material that is not contained in prerequisites subjects. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1014 AND
MATH 1015 AND
MATH 2010 AND
MATH 2003 Assumed Knowledge Calculus, Riemann integration, QR factorisation and generalised inverses of matrices, first and second order differential equations. Learning Outcomes Analyse the concept of No Arbitrage and its consequences.
Apply the binomial model to price options on non-dividend stock (using computer software such as MATLAB or R), for instance by employing Monte Carlo techniques and control variates.
Apply key definitions and results on martingales and stochastic calculus to financial modelling.
Explain the solution to the Black-Scholes equation for European Call and Put Options, using the general solution of the initial value problem.
Deduce the bond pricing equation from the yield curve. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes per Quiz 30 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 50 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Financial Mathematics, Testamur Major (T096) Mathematics (MATH)