Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2073 Issues in Contemporary Heritage Credit Points 10 Coordinator Donna James Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to get students thinking critically about heritage. To do so, it examines two main questions: “What is heritage?” and “Why does it matter?”. While the answers to both may appear fairly straightforward, this subject is designed to make students question and problematise their own assumptions, rethink what is and is not heritage, and consider why, in fact, we even care at all. The subject will introduce concepts such as national identity, memorialisation, belonging, collective memory, forgetting and repatriation. It will also introduce and examine heritage legislation, theory and practice. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 2001 - Issues in Contemporary Heritage Learning Outcomes Generate an inventory of different types and uses of heritage
Summarize different approaches to heritage in varying geographic and cultural settings
Analyse a contemporary heritage issue in a real-world context, namely: heritage and conflict; heritage ‘ownership’; heritage and identity; heritage and politics; looting; repatriation; heritage and destruction; and commemoration
Identify Indigenous standpoints within contemporary heritage debates
Utilise appropriate online technologies to organise, share and communicate heritage-related topics and issues Subject Content A history of heritage
The nature of heritage & its philosophies – what is heritage?
Heritage and identity
Issues of ownership and control
Indigenous Australia and heritage issues
Repatriation of Indigenous heritage 
Heritage and collective memory
Heritage and collective forgetting
Conflicts over heritage (dissonance)
Heritage and museums
Heritage and popular culture
Heritage, Tourism and Events
Heritage, threat and sustainability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 600 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Reflection 3 blog entries (250 words each) 20 N Individual N  Portfolio Completion of 5 activity sheets (c. 150 words) 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There is no set text for this subject. A weekly reading list with links to readings will be made available on vUWS. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Donna James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Festival and Event Management, Major (0306) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Heritage and Tourism, Minor (0012) Place Management and Planning, Major (0304) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainability, Tourism and Environment, Major (0305) Tourism (TOUR) Tourism, Major (0161)