Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2061 Women with Muslim Identity Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101879 Coordinator Jan Ali Opens in new window Description An exploration of perceptions of Muslim women and of the meaning and significance of Muslim identity for women today. Students will analyse ways in which Muslim women perceive themselves and are perceived by others in the context of contemporary Islamic revivalism, focussing on differences and relationships among various outsider's and insider's perceptions. A central focus will be the resurgence of the veil in the context of contemporary Islamic revivalism; Students will explore the meanings of veiling in the context of discussions and debates on the role of women, equality and freedom, cultural diversity, religious values and secularity. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Gender Specific Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: describe and analyse cross-cultural perceptions of Muslim women
describe and analyse experiences of contemporary Muslim women
apply these analyses within discussions of diverse conceptions of freedom and agency, modernity and religion, and women's roles
engage in intellectual debate and dialogue on these issues Subject Content . analysis of cross-cultural perceptions of Muslim women
. social analysis of the resurgence of the veil in the context of contemporary Islamic revivalism
. social analysis of the role of women in Islam
. analysis of experiences and self-understandings of some contemporary Muslim women
. analysis of diverse conceptions of freedom and agency
. analysis of diverse conceptions of modernity, secularity, and religion
. analysis of diverse conceptions of women's roles, women's equality and difference Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Workbook (A weekly critical reflection on weekly lecture, reading/s, and tutorial discussion) 1,000 words 30 N Individual   Mid-session in-class exam 1 hour 20 N Individual   Research Paper 2,000 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Gender Studies, Minor (0295) Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)