Academic Handbook Current Edition MGMT 2001 Commercial Valuation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200603 Coordinator Mohamad Zraika Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a comprehensive understanding of theory and practice of commercial valuation. All aspects of commercial valuation are covered, including commercial valuation reporting standard of the Australian Property Institute. Knowledge of land use planning, property economics and property investment are applied to commercial valuation in this subject. School Business Discipline Valuation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYC 1565 - Commercial Valuation Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge Good conceptual knowledge of property valuation methodology and valuation mathematics. Learning Outcomes Collect, analyse and apply data to the valuation of commercial land and buildings;
Identify and assess the risk factors in retail and commercial property investments;
Apply the requirements of the Australian Property Institute commercial valuation practice standards and guideline notes in commercial valuation;
Apply the due diligence process in relation to commercial property valuation;
Apply the principles and practice of commercial property valuation. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words excluding appendices, tables, photos and graphs. 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mohamad Zraika Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Mohamad Zraika Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Management and Commerce (MGMT) Property, Testamur Major (T047)