Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 5005 Waluwin: Health across the lifespan for Mob Credit Points 10 Coordinator Alison Barnes Opens in new window Description Building on the broad concepts learnt in core subjects either NURS7070 Health, Culture and Wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples or NURS3041 Indigenous Australian Health, Wellness and Culture, this subject introduces the student to perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people’s health.  Critical aspects of nursing care across the lifespan are examined focusing on the patients emotional, social, physical, and significantly, spiritual wellbeing in addition to family and the communities’ response to the key alterations in health. Classroom learning will be supported by a field trip which allows students to experience a culturally immersive experience on Country facilitated by Aboriginal Elders. The field trip will also allow students to develop new skills for practice and develop a deeper appreciation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and culture. This subject will interest anyone with an interest in contemporary Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture and health care. The field trip may incur an additional cost for students. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7070 - Health Culture and Wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples for course 4785
NURS 3041 - Indigenous Australian Health Wellness and Culture for course 4691 4692 4693 4780 Co-requisite(s) NURS 3002 - Being a Professional Nurse or Midwife for course 4691 4692 4693 4780
NURS 7079 - Transition to Professional Nursing for course 4785 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online and completed 160 credit points or 4785 Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) and completed 80 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge related to patient safety, primary health care, professional communication, behavioural and social sciences, and nursing practice. Pre & Co requisites have been included to ensure students can not enrol until the final year of their program as a strategy to ensure academic preparedness Learning Outcomes 1. Apply professional standards and the principles of evidence-based practice in planning for the holistic nursing care of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people, families, and communities.
2. Analyse underlying pathophysiology, clinical presentations, nursing assessments and interventions for alterations in health, across the life span.
3. Evaluate epidemiology and population health data in diagnostic thinking and develop strategies for community-wide approaches to prevention.
4. Critique historical and current policies and practices to determine how they impact the health and wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people today. Subject Content 1. Maternal, prenatal, and newborn care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
2. How the early years provide a firm foundation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
3. The importance of Child and family health
4. Adolescents and the importance of strong cultural ties
5. Mental Health care – age relevant concepts are embedded across the program 
6. An examination of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parenting.
7. Women’s Business 
8. Men’s Business
9. Growing older 
10. Aboriginal aged care 
11. The impact of grief and trauma on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, families, and communities
12. Traditional health care in a contemporary setting
13. Nurses as change agents Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 15 minutes 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)