Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7029 Reflective Clinical Allergy Practice Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401253 Coordinator Miriam Codarini Opens in new window Description This is an online bridging subject for students with a Graduate Certificate in Allergic Diseases qualification or other recognised allergy training who wish to pursue further study in allergic diseases.  Students with acceptable prior learning to enrol in this subject will enter Year 2 of the Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) with the option to exit at the Diploma level.  The subject enables students to revise the latest theoretical and clinical concepts in allergic diseases and reflect on their own clinical allergy practice.  Reflection will be promoted through case presentation and reports and literature review. School Medicine Discipline Internal Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7001 OR
MEDI 7002 AND
MEDI 7003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases). Students must be medical practitioners registered with AHPRA or the New Zealand Medical Board. Assumed Knowledge A completed medical degree (MBBS, MBChB or equivalent qualification) is required and current practice as a clinician is desirable to successfully undertake this subject. Also, must have knowledge of immunological concepts and clinical aspects of allergic diseases, and experience with allergy diagnosis and management in clinical practice.  Satisfactory knowledge and experience in clinical allergy will have been acquired through the existing Graduate Certificate in Allergic Diseases (program code 4689) or via other accredited professional training. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine current literature regarding the pathophysiology, epidemiology, clinical presentation and treatment of allergic diseases.
Review key aspects of the professional practice required of doctors assessing and managing patients with allergic diseases.
Present clinical cases in a clear and well structured manner.
Reflect on aspects of diagnosis and management of allergic diseases.
Conduct a literature review to inform clinical allergy practice. Subject Content 1. All learning modules from Allergic Sciences 1 and 2 units
2. Clinical case reflection:
a. Case study 1 (own case)
- present and discuss case with PowerPoint slides via Zoom
- summary report of main diagnostic and treatment challenges
b. Case study 2 (provided by lecturer)
- choose one question emerging from The case, modules or set Topics for literature Review Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 8 S/U N Individual Y  Quiz 60 mins x 2 S/U N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 15 Y Individual Y  Reflection 500 words 20 Y Individual Y  Reflection 500 words 25 Y Individual Y  Literature Review 1,500 words 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Miriam Codarini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Allergic Diseases (exit only) (4754) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Medical Studies (MEDI)