Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3022 Systems Administration Programming Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300165 Coordinator Golenur Huq Opens in new window Description This subject covers programming techniques and tools used to administer standalone and networked computer systems. The subject focuses on the use of high level interpretive scripting languages to automate everyday administrative tasks, and to monitor and control running systems. Techniques to extend scripting language capabilities by dynamic linking to compiled code are examined, particularly in terms of access to operating system level functions. The subject also examines the use of administrative programs and tools to monitor and adjust system performance and capacity. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 2019 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 6160 - Script programming Assumed Knowledge Students should have a thorough grounding in systems programming and operating systems basics. Learning Outcomes List and define the key types of system administration tasks that are suitable for full or partial automation programmatically.
Select the most appropriate programming implementation method for a required system administration task from the range: shell scripts, scripting languages, and low level compiled languages; and explain the reasons for the selection.
Write, test and document system administration programs in a scripting language for various administration tasks that are synchronised or asynchronised (serial, parallel, or event driven) in nature.
Write programs to automate tasks like user management, software management, backup & recovery, and system security for both local (centralised) and distributed systems.
Extend the capabilities of a high level scripting language.
Explain the fundamental principles of performance and capacity planning in regards to systems administration.
Write programs to collect performance and capacity data for performance and capacity planning purposes. Explain the meaning and significance of the data collected, recommend system administration actions based on this interpretation, and write programs to implement the recommended actions.
Deliver tested and documented programs with significant complexity within specified project deadlines and in a form that meets IT professional standards. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Laboratory work Practical tasks along with associated project work 40 N Individual   Quizzes Ten quizzes, each quiz contains ten multiple choice questions 10 N Individual   Final examination Two hours, open book 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Systems Administration, Minor (0149)