Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 2005 Techniques in Financial Accounting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200973 Coordinator Yongqing Li Opens in new window Description Techniques in Financial Accounting is the third subject in the financial accounting stream and builds upon Financial Accounting Applications as part of the accredited accounting program. It introduces a company as a business structure and the accounting requirements for their formation and operations. Students develop skills in using tools required for accurate record keeping leading to compilation of financial statements, as well as how to account for receivables and payables, the disposal of non-current assets, and preparation of cash flow statements. Successful completion of the subject will equip participants with a practical and theoretical understanding of usefulness of general purpose financial reports. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 1007 Incompatible Subjects ACCT 2004 Intermediate Financial Accounting Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Indicate the purpose and outcomes of the accounting cycle in relation to reporting entities.
Prepare financial statements for a company business structure using a manual based accounting system.
Prepare general purpose financial reports for reporting entities by application of accounting principles.
Analyse basic accounting theory and how it is applied. Subject Content 1. Revision of debit and credits and introducing company structure.
2. Companies: formation and operations.
3. Reconstruction of accounts and error correction.
4. End of period adjustments. Depreciation and amortisation.
5. Closing and reversing entries.
6. Ten column worksheet and financial statement compilation.
7. Accounting for receivables and payables.
8. Non-current asset disposal.
9. Preparation of cash flows.
10. Accounting theories. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Semester long- equivalent to 1,000 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 1250 words 20 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour per quiz 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Yongqing Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Stanley James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Yongqing Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Stanley James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Yongqing Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Yongqing Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Bachelor of Accounting (2783) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)