Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1017 Introduction to Translation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100195 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description This is a core subject for students in the Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) course and an elective foundation subject for language key field of study in the BA. It introduces students to translation theory and practice. Lectures are held in English for students of all languages. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin and Spanish.  The subject is only available to students with a high level of proficiency (native or near-native level) in one of the languages offered. The languages offered, subject to demand, are: Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, and Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 2096 - Translation 1 LGYB 2097 - Translation 2 LGYB 2850 - Introduction to Translation Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate knowledge of the different theories of translation throughout history, including those advanced by theorists such as Catford, Nida, Newmark, Steiner and others;
show familiarity with the different translation approaches such as literal versus free, semantic versus communicative;
explain the intricacies of language and the difficulties of achieving cross linguistic equivalence, at the morphemic, lexical, syntactic and textual levels;
describe the cross-cultural differences as they influence language;
compare different notions of accuracy and equivalence from the syntactic, to the semantic, to the pragmatic dimensions;
demonstrate linguistic proficiency by translating a variety of text genres;
show familiarity with existing resources for translation including dictionaries, thesauruses, the Internet; and
demonstrate the Translation profession in Australia, NAATI qualifications, and ethics of the profession. Subject Content 1. General overview of translation theories through the ages.
2. Different approaches to translation according to genre and purpose of translation.
3. The hierarchy of language from the lexical to the textual and discourse as well as some typological differences found across languages.
4. Describe the cross cultural differences that influence language use and language choice.
5. The meaning of accuracy and the difficulties of finding cross linguistic and cross cultural equivalence at the different levels of the language hierarchy.
6. The Translation profession in Australia and its codes of ethics.
7. Semantic versus pragmatic equivalence.
8. The application of theory to problem solving and decision making in the process of translation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Translation 500 words 40 N Individual Y  Translation 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022)