Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7040 Clinical Practice in Diabetes 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401286 Coordinator Cathy Wilson Opens in new window Description This subject will focus on the disease process leading to chronic complications of diabetes. Students will examine the screening process, interventions and the management of established microvascular and macrovascular disease associated with diabetes. Students investigate the elderly and vulnerable populations for the synthesis of individualisation of diabetes care and management. Health practitioner clinical skills directly impact on the short and long term health status of people with diabetes. In this online subject, there is a mandatory five day face-to-face clinical workshop component and a mandatory 40 hours of clinical practicum that will be undertaken by all students in this subject. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7039 AND
MEDI 7041 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4761 Graduate Certificate or 4762 Graduate Diploma in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education. Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge and understanding of pathophysiology and clinical diabetes. Demonstrated understanding of psychosocial education and support in  diabetes self-management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the pathophysiology in the development of chronic complications for people living with diabetes.
Support and educate people living with diabetes to prevent, detect and delay the onset of diabetes related chronic complications in the context of their lives.
Educate people living with diabetes with the practical skills required for the self-management of diabetes.
Adapt diabetes clinical management for vulnerable populations with diabetes such as the elderly, people having surgery and with mental health issues.
Adapt critical thinking skills and reflection to enhance professional practice in diabetes self-management and education. Subject Content Overview pathophysiology in complications
Practical skills in diabetes management
Chronic complications in diabetes
Macrovascular complications associated with diabetes
Microvascular complications associated with diabetes
Vulnerable populations with diabetes such as the elderly, people having surgery and with mental health issues Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Peer Review 45 - 60 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 7 minutes  S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 40 Hours S/U Y Individual Y  Quiz 45 minutes S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Cathy Wilson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4761) Graduate Diploma in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4762) Medical Studies (MEDI)