Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7025 Human Physiology and Biomedical Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301210 Coordinator Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window Description This subject aims to introduce a wide range of biomedical technologies and how they are used in medical practice. Topics will span from data acquisition technologies such as ECG, EEG, body plethysmography, to large imaging diagnostics such as CT scanner, PET scanner and bio-mechanical assisting devices often used for rehabilitation and support. The first part of this subject will include a module on human physiology and bio-mechanics. This module gives a basic understanding of the human body and introduces the scientific and medical terminology used for anatomy, physiology and biochemistry and bio-mechanics. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Biomedical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Computer skills; basic concepts of electronics i.e. amplifiers and filters; knowledge of signal theory Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply basic principles of human physiology to biomedical engineering.
Apply the process of development of medical devices from inception to commercialization.
Apply principles relating to the functioning of major biomedical technologies. Subject Content Biomedical technologies: Signals based devices i.e. ECG, EMG etc
Biomedical technologies: Imaging based devices i.e. MRI, X-rays etc
Principles of human physiology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Submission 1 Part A: 20 questions; Submission 2 Part B: 3000 words 80 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Biomedical, Testamur Major (T055) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Telecommunication and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T115)