Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7008 Media Research Project Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102521 Coordinator Kate Richards Opens in new window Description This research-focused subject enables students to develop and produce a major work on a convergent media subject and theme, such as: communications and design theories and practices, data visualisation, content creation for convergent media, and digital humanities. The subject will cover methods for designing and implementing an academic or practice-based research project through workshops and exercises. Students may be introduced to techniques for: differentiating appropriate research methodologies; integrating research techniques into the planning and creation of a research project; field research, action research and research-creation; devising a literature review and constructing a logical argument; and critical reading. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use various research methods and processes.
Identify the most suitable approach for a given research problem or question in the field of convergent media.
Develop a research question and a subsequent research plan.
Conduct research based on the research plan and selected methods.
Reflect critically upon research findings.
Present research findings and outcomes. Subject Content Research methods and processes.
Case studies in convergent media research.
The role of research in convergent media professions.
Establishment of an original research question.
Development of a research plan to include either an academic written essay or practice-based outcome.
Conducting research methods and processes as per research plan.
Presentation of final research outcome. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Research Proposal 1,200-1,500 words 15 N Individual   Literature Review 10,000-12,000 words 25 N Individual   a. Research Report OR b. Practical Research Report and Exegesis
 a. 10,000-12,000 words OR b. Written exegesis 3,000 words plus practical convergent media project to be negotiated with the unit coordinator 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM)