Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1042 Developing Literacy and Numeracy Credit Points 10 Coordinator Kay Carroll Opens in new window Description This subject addresses how children and adolescents develop concepts in literacy and numeracy. The focus is on the effective teaching of literacy and numeracy across the curriculum, including explicit and culturally responsive strategies for linguistically diverse learners, including EAL/D students. There is a specific emphasis on how to teach oral language, phonics, reading, comprehension and writing strategies. Foundational mathematical concepts including number, algebra, geometry, measurement, and statistics are explored. Understanding the development of mathematical proficiency, fluency, problem-solving and reasoning is a key focus. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1038 Restrictions Must be enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify how literacy development occurs in children and adolescents. 
Applies explicit literacy instruction and scaffolding in curriculum areas. 
Identify how numeracy is developed in children and adolescents. 
Applies mathematical strategies to develop student understanding, fluency, problem-solving and reasoning in curriculum areas and tasks. 
Uses effective pedagogical strategies to meet diverse learners’ needs in literacy and numeracy, including the needs of EAL/D students. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 15 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour 15 N Individual Y  Professional Task 800 words 35 N Individual Y  Professional Task 800 words 35 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1940) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1941) Teacher Education (TEAC)