Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 5004 Wellbeing Economy Credit Points 10 Description The Wellbeing Economy is an emerging global movement aimed to disrupt and transform dominant macro-economic systems focused on economic growth. Proponents of the Wellbeing Economy argue that individual, community and societal wellbeing should be the measures of a successful economy. Major shifts in government and business sector accountability for social justice and ‘wellness’ outcomes are predicted over the coming decade. At the micro level, what will it mean to live, work and lead in a wellbeing economy? What new knowledge, skills and attitudes will be required on the ground? In this subject traditional and emerging theories and concepts of wellbeing will be explored, critiqued and reimagined. Real world examples of holistic approaches to wellbeing in business and industry contexts will be investigated and applied to your unique, authentic contexts. You will build your capacity to problem-solve and plan for wellbeing outcomes in your individual spheres of influence. Engaging leaders across industries will share their experiences through online learning activities and resources. At the conclusion of this subject, you will have enhanced knowledge and skills to develop, at scale, strategies and plans that support individual, community and organisational wellbeing. School Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Identify emerging concepts, themes, and trends for a wellbeing economy
Critically evaluate inclusive and exclusive measurements of economic growth
Apply psychological theories and concepts of human behaviour to enhance human performance and wellbeing, including from Indigenous psychology
Reflect on and transform personal theories and concepts of wellbeing applied in organisational settings
Create and communicate a plan to address barriers to wellbeing within an organisational context Subject Content The Foundations of the Wellbeing Economy People and Health in the Wellbeing Economy Advancing Wellbeing in your Organisation Understanding Human Behaviour Human Behaviour in Work Context Mental Health in Work Context Special Requirements Essential equipment Computer and internet access Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Reflection 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project PPT presentation 10 minutes and 1,000 word report 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact  Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Certificate in Human and Business Performance (1942)