Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7037 Multichannel Marketing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201023 Coordinator Farid Ahmed Opens in new window Description Today's customers have far greater control over the buying process than previously, be that in business or consumer markets.  Multichannel marketing is about providing your customers with every opportunity to engage with your business across a variety of offline and online platforms.  This subject looks at how the messages and media deployed by an organisation create and sustain demand as a means to build network relationships.  As customer expectations rise and the influences of technology becomes more prevalent, students will learn about the importance of personalized campaigns that will resonate with each customer account. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7009 - Business Marketing Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Assumed Knowledge Students should have a solid understanding of the foundations of marketing theory and practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop business marketing strategies that align with global opportunities and challenges
Apply innovative and personalized communication strategies for omni-channel business models
Investigate customer-business marketing relationships within the context of marketing channels, networks and supply chains
Analyse how organizations create and sustain product or service demand to optimize network relationships. Subject Content 1. Develop messages through different media to communicate with the market to create and sustain demand
2. Concentrate sales and marketing resources on a clearly defined set of target accounts within a market
3. Build network relationships through the personalized integration
4. Deploy deliberate personalized campaigns
5. Manage marketing technology to meet customers through the various channels and devices
6. Optimize value for business marketing channels and supply chains. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 word equivalent 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group Y  Case Study 1,500 word equivalent 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Farid Ahmed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Marketing, Major (0137) Master of Marketing (2817) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)