Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7003 Australia's Visa System 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200966 Coordinator Michael Morgan Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a structured examination of issues common to all Australian visas, including public health criteria, implications for family members of visa applicants and visa conditions.  The subject further provides a close analysis of issues common to some Australian visas, such as matters of sponsorship, assurances of support, family violence provisions, provisional visas, English language requirements, skills assessment and exclusion periods and other public interest requirements. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7007 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 2803/2819 Graduate Diploma in Migration Law, 2810 Master of Laws (International Governance), 2826 Juris Doctor or 2824 Master of Laws. This program is available to international students who may obtain a Subclass 600 Tourist Visas (with visa condition 8201 - Max 3 Months Study), 485 Temporary Graduate Visa or other non-student visas with permission to study. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically examine issues common to all Australian visas, including public interest requirements, health criteria and matters related to family members of visa applicants or visa holders.
the nature of visa conditions and implications of breaching visa conditions.
Analyse miscellaneous issues related to some Australian visas (including sponsorship, assurances of support, family violence, provisional visas, English language requirements, skills assessment and exclusion periods).
Propose and justify the appropriate visa category or alternative pathway solutions to relevant case law.
Communicate llegal solutions and advice in a written form effectively.
Apply ethical principles and the Code of Conduct, and comply with relevant legislation required of a migration agent.
Apply self-directed learning strategies to enhance learning. Subject Content Issues common to all visas Part 1 (Health)
Issues common to all visas Part 2 (including Family members)
Visa Conditions
Issues common to some visas Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2,000 words 35 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 3,500 words 55 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Michael Morgan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Michael Morgan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Australian Migration Law Studies, minor (0346) Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law (2819) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)