Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7003 Foundations of Media Arts Production (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102300 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description This subject explores creative and independent media arts practices across moving image, audio and participatory forms, and introduces students to fundamental principles of long-form sound and screen production. The subject maps theoretical and practical connections between the creation and study of images and sound across media formats through an integrated theory/practice programme focused on the processes through which long-form media artefacts are created. Students learn how to analyse and critically evaluate screen media and also to plan and make simple short works of their own. It introduces students to relevant media arts histories and contexts (with a focus on cinema) in addition to a range of technologies, media practices and production techniques. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an awareness of the processes and practices of screen media arts production and the interdisciplinary and multi-platform nature of screen media arts production
Apply creative strategies and technical skills of screen media production in an environment that link them to theories and histories of screen media
Demonstrate an ability to critically review a screen media work
Make a simple screen media work in small groups work using accessible mobile and online tools and plan a distribution stategy for the work. Subject Content MODULE 1 - 1.Visual language and creative camera coverage. This topic will study how a scene is staged for the camera. It will include explorations into camera angles, shot sizes, camera movement, focus, depth of field, speed, lighting, colour, subjective and objective camera, composition and production design. Students will learn how to create storyboards and create shot lists.
2. Sound in Screen Media Production. This topic will explore the relationship between sound and screen media. It would explore how sound is recorded and mixed. It will analyse different components of sound in screen media such as atmospheric sounds and music.
3. Editing in Screen Media Production. This topic will explore the role of editing in Screen Media Production. It will analyse the strategies of editing from the two schools of editing: Continuity Editing and Montage.
MODULE 2 - 4. Critical Responses to Screen Media This topic will explore how screen media has been critically analysed. It will look at the principle arguments of the two main schools: Theory & Post-theory.
MODULE 3 - 5. Project development. This topic will explore how projects in Screen Media move from Idea to the Screen. It will study different models from the Hollywood Studio to crowd sourcing/funding. It will cover preparing briefs and concept documents for clients and potential funders.
MODULE 4 - 6. Project Production and Distribution. Stages of Screen Media Production This topic will explore the different stages of screen media production: Preproduction, Production and Postproduction. It will analyse the different roles involved media production with a focus on the director and producer. Legal issues affecting screen media such as licensing and defamation will be covered.
7. Media Distribution This topic will explore one of the most important issues related to screen media production - how media is distribution in offline and online environments. It will analyse concepts and practices such as 'windows' and peer-to-peer sharing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Group Presentation Mastery Task: workshop 1 hour; online quiz 1 hour 0 Y Group   Creative coverage storyboard exercise 500 words equivalent 30 N Individual   Review, analysis of film/TV program/game 1500 words 30 N Individual   Short Media Presentation 1500 words equivalent plus visual work (maximum of 3 minutes) 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Digital Futures, Testamur Major (T005) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)