Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3050 Housing Markets and Policy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101592 Coordinator Emma Power Opens in new window Description Housing affordability and equity are central urban problems. This subject focuses on the history and current challenges of housing markets and policy in Australia. Comparisons are drawn between rental and home ownership, the roles of the public, social, and private sectors, and between Australian, European, and North American housing markets and policies. We will critically evaluate how policy, markets and the experiences and practices of households interact. We will consider key housing challenges including ending homelessness, housing for health, housing in an ageing society, and housing in times of crisis such as climate change, bushfire and pandemic. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1331 Regional Planning Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain how specific policies affect different segments of the housing market.
Analyse how future financial, economic, social and environmental trends could alter the outcomes of specific housing strategies.
Critically evaluate how the Australian housing sector has evolved, and why this path has been different than the path of other economically similar countries, such as Canada, the UK, and the USA.
Explain how the role of major housing actors (local and state governments, housing associations, private developers, small and large investors, tenants, and home owners) has evolved, and why.
Demonstrate understanding of the major sources of local housing data. Subject Content What is housing and why is it so important
Tenure: social / legal construction of housing classes and homeownership as a social policy
Housing affordability and housing subsidies
Tenants in the public, social, and private sectors
Housing and the labour market
Housing as home
Housing and health
Housing and ageing
Responses to homelessness
Housing in times of crisis (e.g in context of climate change, sea level rise, bushfire, pandemic)
Alternative models of housing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 800 words 20 N Individual N  Case Study 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Report 1,200 words 45 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Emma Power Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Emma Power Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Emma Power Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Economy and Society, Minor (0319) Geography and Urban Studies, Major (0010) Geography and Urban Studies, Minor (0010) Secondary Geography Education, Major (0355) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Urban Studies, Major (0162)