Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7074 Surgical Pathology of the Head and Neck, Haematopathology and Paediatric Pathology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401478 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entities in haematopathology, head and neck, and paediatric pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology IV. Two self-directed online learning modules with digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the above sub-specialties will be provided. Upon completion of the subject students will have advanced knowledge in surgical, cyto- and small biopsy pathology, including appropriate ancillary techniques and recent research developments. This subject will promote behaviours that create a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by pathologists. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7036 - Cytopathology and Small Biopsy Pathology 5 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine and interpret advanced diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialties of haematopathology, head and neck, and paediatric pathology, including a number of non-neoplastic, benign and malignant diagnoses
Define the resources and technical requirements needed to reach the correct diagnosis in haematopathology, head and neck, and paediatric pathology
Apply basic research skills to identify and describe pathological entities encountered in the professional practice of pathology
Reflect on the behaviour required to create a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by pathologists Subject Content Head and neck pathology
Paediatric pathology
Haematopathology Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Students need to meet the legislative requirements to be in a supervised specialist training role in Pathology, and hence be working clinically in a hospital/laboratory setting. If a student fails to meet these requirements they will not be allowed to enrol in the unit. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 20 cases ~300-500 words each S/U Y Individual Y  Case Study 20 cases ~300-500 words each S/U Y Individual N  Essay 1,500 word limit 50 Y Individual Y  Report 10 cases
~300-500 words each
 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Master of Medicine (Pathology) (4750) Medical Studies (MEDI)