Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 3002 Architecture Studio - Global Cities Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301201 Coordinator Michael Chapman Opens in new window Description This subject will situate learning in the context of the Global City. Projects will be used to investigate scenarios that are common to the contemporary condition of the developing world and the expanding metropolis in various international contexts. Students will either travel to international sites, work with international partners, or work remotely on problems beyond the Australian context. Work integrated learning will be a key feature of the Global Cities studio and will involve relevant members of the professional community to help lead studio investigations. Assessments will include complex urban projects at a large scale, developed using the design, communications, technical, and theoretical studies that have underpinned their education. Assessments will be project-based in real world scenarios and will incorporate sustainable strategies of design. Studies will be supplemented by tuition in structural design and will also be informed by concurrent studies in building science. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ARCH 3004 AND
ARCH 3003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3753 Bachelor of Architectural Design. Students not enrolled in 3753 who wish to enrol into this subject should have a 5.0 minimum GPA and are required to discuss with the Academic program Advisor. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply creative design skills to address urban complexity, diverse combinations of architectural programs, and large-scale buildings.
Demonstrate an advanced level of theoretical and technical awareness in architectural and spatial design with an ability to develop and test a variety of sensitive design solutions in section, plan and model using hand and digital techniques.
Develop and demonstrate an awareness of the broader cultural context in which architecture is practised, through the application of local and global planning considerations, and an understanding of the history of practice of urban design and issues of city planning
Develop an understanding of fundamental performance-based aspects of building design, including structural principles, daylight/lighting level analysis, thermal analysis, ventilation and acoustic analysis, where the evaluation of data justifies built form, and/or a specific set of characteristics which modulate how buildings are both built and experienced.
Develop an understanding and ability to design appropriate structural solutions and construction strategies for different building types and spatial requirements, with consideration for assembly and cost.
Implement technical skills in analysis and representation of structural design. Subject Content 1.Investigation of Urban Spatial and Architectural design scenarios
2.Fundamentals of architectural building structures
3.Analysis of context and precedent to inform design decisions
4.Organisation of architectural programs and material assemblies in large-scale buildings or large-scale complex urban environments/scenarios
5.Graphic visualisation and literacy
6.Performance based design solutions in response to daylight, acoustics, thermal performance and other aspects of building science Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Construction Site Induction Safety “White Card” – must be obtained in Year 1 of the program. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation Drawings and/or Models 10 N Group Y  Applied Project Drawings and Models 10 minutes for presentation (allows 5 mins question time)
 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project Drawings or Models and 500 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 500 words, visual compendium 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michael Chapman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Architectural Design (3753)