Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3004 Emergency Care for Special Populations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401070 Coordinator Paul Simpson Opens in new window Description This subject explores the issues in caring for special populations in the emergency situation - multicultural and Indigenous settings, the elderly, people with disabilities and people experiencing mental illness. Current trends underlying policies and services and determinants of wellbeing in these contexts are discussed. Particular attention is given to issues, principles and practices relating to ageing, and to the assessment, treatment, rehabilitation strategies and crisis counselling for people experiencing mental illness. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 3014 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the strategic environment and trends underlying policies and services in the aged care and disability contexts
Discuss the impact of culture, society and family on wellbeing and health care needs
Demonstrate understanding of the psychological and social factors influencing the health care of older people and people with disabilities
Examine the range of resources and facilities relevant to services for older people and people with disability
Apply knowledge, skills and experience to reflect on and analyse health care needs and emergency situations affecting special populations Subject Content 1. Special populations and social attitudes
2. Legislation and policy relating to special populations
a. Funding
b. Rights
c. Discrimination
3. Health care contexts
a. Determinants of health and wellbeing
b. Settings for aged care and disability services
c. Carers
4. Ageing
a. Psychological, biological, social and psychosocial issues
b. Family structures
c. Family and community care
5. Mental health
a. Assessment, treatment and rehabilitations
b. Crisis counselling
6. Implications for pre-hospital and emergency care (this topic is integrated in each of the preceding areas) Structures that include subject Other Health (HLTH)