Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3035 Discovery Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301490 Coordinator Rosalind Wang Opens in new window Description In this subject students will gain experience in applying data science skills and using knowledge gained during their undergraduate studies. Students will carry out a real life project transforming data to knowledge under the supervision of an academic mentor. Students will develop a project proposal and carry out a literature review highlighting the current status of the problem. They will then apply data science skills learned through-out the degree to produce a final discovery project report and/or interactive project tool followed by an oral presentation. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) COMP 3032 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs and have completed 200 credit points before enrolling into the subject: 3769 Bachelor of Data Science
3770 Bachelor of Applied Data Science
3778 Bachelor of Mathematics Assumed Knowledge Bachelor of Data Science students should have knowledge from all their core DS subjects. 
Bachelor of Applied Data Science students should have knowledge from their primary discipline and some of the DS subjects.   
Students in the Data Science major should have knowledge from their main degree and most core DS subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design a data driven knowledge discovery project plan and develop an investigative project proposal.
Collect, integrate, clean and prepare the data source relevant to the problem being studied.
Undertake self-directed study and literature search relevant to the problem being investigated.
Undertake a computational and/or analytical approach in problem solving and predictive modelling.
Undertake a multidisciplinary project to solve a real life applied or theoretical data science problem by applying skills learnt in the undergraduate degree(s), highlighting the capabilities of data science approaches. 
Write and produce a comprehensive research report in a logical, concise and professional manner.
Present a project and its results to an audience in an oral presentation. Subject Content This subject will cover and include, research methodology, reference management software, literature search, theses writing skills, theses writing software and powerpoint and presentation skills.  The projects offered will vary according to the expertise and the research interests of students and the academic supervisors. Students will choose individual project topics and any relevant data in consultation with the subject coordinator and the supervising staff member (mentor).  Students will gain a hands-on experience in solving a real life data science problem by applying both statistical and computational skills gained through their degree. Hence these projects will have a common flavour of being data driven and multidisciplinary and will highlight the capabilities of data science approach. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 10 N Group Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Group Y  Report 4,000 words 45 N Group Y  Presentation 30 mins including question time. 25 N Group Y  Participation  10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Applied Data Science (3770) Bachelor of Data Science (3769) Bachelor of Mathematics (3778) Computer Science (COMP)