Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2020 Digital Humanities and Research Methods (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102425 Coordinator Rachel Hendery Opens in new window Description This subject investigates the methodological possibilities of digital technologies for interdisciplinary humanities and social sciences research. It covers several major digital research methods, exploring previous applications and examining their orientations and implications. Digital research methods and applications may include digitisation, online curation, visualisation, network analysis, geographical information systems, data mining and simulation. In the context of these, the subject will probe histories of technology and knowledge production, the evolution of digital texts and practices, and issues in contemporary culture such as digital design, gamification, virtual identity, and digital rights. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points at Level 1. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Communicate a clear understanding of the ways digital technologies are applied in interdisciplinary research contexts;
Collaborate with fellow students to engage with digital platforms for research;
Articulate the ways in which digital technologies are influencing social and cultural research methodologies; and
Describe how new digital technologies can be used to address contemporary research questions. Subject Content Introduction to subject - The ?ecomputational turn?f in the humanities (lecture pods, readings)
Digitisation (lecture pods, readings in own time). Workshop: exercise relating to working with electronic texts.
Data/text mining and visualisation (Lecture pods, readings). Workshop: text mining and visualisation exercise.
Gaming (lecture pods, readings). Workshop: case study exercise in gaming.
GIS and mapping (lecture pods, readings). Workshop: mapping exercise.
Network analysis, social media, metadata (lecture pods, readings). Workshop: exercise relating to network analysis.
Students present their own final project. Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)