Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7013 Explosives Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301156 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window Description The subject provides information on the range of explosive compounds that may be encountered in incidents involving national security. It also covers improvised explosive devices, security screening applications, bomb scene management, and the forensic recovery and analysis of explosive residues. The subject concludes with case studies designed to illustrate the concepts covered in the preceding modules. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3741 Master of Forensic Science, 3742 Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science or 3743 Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: gather, analyse, evaluate, interpret and present information relevant to the criminal use of explosives in a systematic and insightful way
detect and identify potential explosive threats and use reflective practice and independent critical thinking to determine the appropriate tools and procedures to implement for rapid and effective solutions
apply foresight, initiative and leadership skills to implement effective decisions and cope with novel situations, both independently and collaboratively Subject Content 1. Explosive compounds and mixtures
2. Organic explosives
3. Peroxide-based explosives
4. Improvised explosive devices
5. Screening technologies
6. Forensic analysis of explosives
7. Bomb scene management
8. Case study - Bali bombings 2002 Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam Not specified 100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)