Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3039 Professional Experience Placement Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401452 Coordinator Debra Raymond Opens in new window Description Professional Experience Placement is a capstone subject which provides students an opportunity to consolidate the development of the role and clinical skills of the registered nurse in preparation for transition to graduate practice. A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and a professional experience placement to evaluate clinical skills development. The subject includes 240 hours of Professional Experience Placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 1020 AND
NURS 1021 AND
NURS 2028 AND
NURS 2029 AND
NURS 3032 Co-requisite(s) NURS 3002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate leadership in initiating and managing collaborative practices in nursing.
Coordinate resources effectively and efficiently for planned actions.
Seeks and responds to practice review and feedback.
Complies with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other standards or requirements relevant to the context of practice when making decisions.
Practises in accordance with relevant policies, guidelines, standards, regulations, and legislation. Subject Content Transition to graduate practice
Working in multi-disciplinary teams
Consolidate and review core practice skills
Recognising and responding to variations in health status
Risk assessment – falls, pressure injury, venous thromboembolism (VT)
Prioritising Care - simulated patients
PACE, MET, Clinical Review
Complex IV Therapy
Time management
Clinical judgement
Managing others/ leadership and delegation
Accountability
Nurse as educator
Family focused care
Principles of Work Health and Safety in practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students must wear the School of Nursing and Midwifery clinical uniform, including correct fully enclosed ALL black shoes [that meet WHS requirements - Shoes must be low heeled, fully enclosed, non-slip soles (Reeboks, joggers, sandshoes, sneakers, gym shoes, sandals, slippers, ballet shoes, etc. are NOT acceptable.)] to all CPU classes and the clinical placement.
The uniform can be purchased from the retail store on campus. Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 240 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Laura Mellish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Nursing (NURS)