Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 7002 Advanced Healthcare Software and Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301029 Coordinator Yu Fang Opens in new window Description In this subject students will learn the concepts underpinning the services computing paradigm of "bridging the gap between Business Services and IT Services". Services Computing technology includes Web services and service-oriented architecture (SOA), business consulting methodology and utilities, business process modelling, transformation and integration. Students will learn, through the development of practical examples, how to utilise these technologies within a healthcare context. Advanced knowledge and knowledge of recent developments in specific sub-topics will also be acquired through practical components in the subject. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Characterise the functional and practical elements of XML-related technologies and Web Services relating to the areas of messaging, workflow and clinical documentation within a healthcare context.
Design high-level user and technical specification of Web Services for healthcare applications.
Apply highly developed and technically advanced written presentation skills in describing Web Services for healthcare applications.
Analyse and integrate ideas from forefront knowledge via readings and scientific literature about best practice integration approaches in existing sharable healthcare system implementations.
Analyse the operations of Web services in the context of newer Internet technologies (eg. mobile and Cloud-based) and adapting to the changing business requirements in healthcare.
Apply new knowledge gained from unit to complex cases arising in the Australian Health System workplace, exercising professional judgement in the context of the new knowledge area. Subject Content 1. Use and application of XML-related technologies and Web Services in the healthcare environment (eg. business process modelling, transformation, messaging, document architectures)
2. Best practice approaches for achieving integration of applications and information within healthcare
3. Techniques for achieving adaptable and scalable system architectures responsive to healthcare business requirements
4. Industry and regulatory standards relevant to national and international healthcare system implementations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 5-6 pages (2500-3000) 35 N Individual Y  Report 5-6 pages (2500-3000) 35 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Diploma in Digital Health (4778) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Health Informatics, Testamur Major (T007) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Information Systems (INFS) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032)