Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1007 Communication in Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400732 Coordinator Elizabeth Atteya Opens in new window Description Communication is integral to professional relationships, whether working individually with a client, educating community members on health matters, or working with other professionals as part of a multidisciplinary team. This subject aims to develop written and verbal communication skills in preparation for work within the health professions across these areas. Communication skills will include those needed to form therapeutic relationships with individual clients and groups, as well as those required to communicate health information to clients, groups and the wider community. Students will develop skills to establish appropriate working relationships with professional colleagues. School Health Sciences Discipline Verbal Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7034 - Communication for the Helping Professions COMM 1008 - Communication in Health (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse and evaluate the characteristics of health professional relationships with clients, colleagues, and the wider community.
Reflect on the impact of personal attitudes, beliefs and values on communication.
Apply essential verbal and written communication skills in the interaction with individual clients, patients, significant others, colleagues and other health stakeholders.
Analyse and apply strategies to adapt communication processes to meet the varying health literacy or special needs of clients, family and significant others.
Employ team work skills relevant to working in health care settings. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview 4 minutes 30 Y Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group N  Portfolio 1,500 words + Infographic 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no Prescribed textbook. Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Elizabeth Atteya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Elizabeth Atteya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Elizabeth Atteya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Elizabeth Atteya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Elizabeth Atteya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (4656) Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine (4710) Clinical Sciences, Testamur Major (T109) Communication and Media (COMM) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)