Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3008 Exercise Physiology Across the Lifespan Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401149 Coordinator Chloe Taylor Opens in new window Description This subject is focused on physiological changes across the human lifespan and their effects on exercise tolerance. There is a particular focus on structural, physiological and motor development changes across the lifespan with emphasis on the control of neuromuscular, cardiovascular, respiratory and thermoregulatory function. Social determinants of health and physiological adaptation to exercise training  will be covered, alongside contraindicated exercises and common injuries/conditions that are present at different stages across the lifespan. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2012 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4658 Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Distinguish the stages of growth and development across the lifespan, from conception through to death (including pregnancy in women).
2. Justify why certain exercises are contraindicated for particular stages of growth and development across the lifespan, and why certain injuries and conditions are commonly present during certain stages of growth and development.
3. Articulate the structural, physiological and motor development changes across the lifespan and the effect of exercise on such changes.
4. Analyse and evaluate the literature and guidelines on growth and development as they relate to exercise.
5. Use an integrated understanding of physiology to explain how sex differences and ageing influence movement and functional capability.
6. Illustrate the social determinants of health that affect growth and development.
7. Integrate knowledge of and skills in growth and development with other areas of exercise science. Subject Content 1. Problems of normality, scale, and gender.
2. Theories of growth and development
3. Chronological and biological age
4. Structural, physiological and motor development changes throughout the lifespan
5. Common injuries and contraindicated exercises for various stages of growth and development
6. Genetics, training and adaptability of exercise tolerance and physiology at different ages
7. Social determinants of health that affect growth and development
8.  Integrated problems. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites All students must have:
1. Working with Children Check Student Declaration
2. National Police Check
3. Student Undertaking Form
4. First Aid Certificate Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Chloe Taylor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science) (4658) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)