Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3046 Personal Branding Strategies: Build and Manage Your Career Profile Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102780 Coordinator Kristen Marshall Opens in new window Description A strong personal brand can open doors to career opportunities, promotions and partnerships in all industries. This subject is essential for anyone who wants to propel their career, build a reputation, capitalise on opportunities and stand out to future employers. Using user-centred theories and approaches, we'll teach you how to create a personal brand aligned to your values and goals in a way that engenders confidence, trust and credibility. You'll learn the skills to network so you can connect with and leverage the influencers who can accelerate your reputation. How to build and showcase your brand, both online and offline, and how to manage it over time. How to craft short talks and presentations (based on the philosophies and techniques of TED), to inspire your audience to action. This subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects COMM 2049 - Personal Branding Strategies Build and Manage Your Career Profile Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Please note that this subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse and evaluate key characteristics of strong personal brands.
Apply research and communication skills to develop an authentic personal brand.
Craft a communications plan to present a clear and consistent message, both online and offline.
Create the personal brand components which best demonstrate your brand in your field.
Learn how to evaluate and evolve a personal brand over time. Subject Content Module 1: Introduction to personal branding
This module introduces the concept of personal branding, and explores its importance in the workplace of the future. We examine strong personal brands in a range of industries, and explore the differences in how those individuals achieve impact.
Module 2: Wayfinding
This module encourages students to explore their goals, beliefs and values concerning work, life and career. Students work through a series of exercises to ideate their future, clarifying what makes them feel fulfilled, engaged and empowered. This is an essential stage in working towards creating an authentic personal brand.
Module 3: Prototyping your brand
This module presents students with ways to create a prototype of their personal brand. Prototyping is an integral part of design thinking, and students will be encouraged to gather information and ?etry out?f a version of a potentially interesting future. Students will collaborate with external mentors in this module.
Module 4: Communicating your brand
This module focuses on the most effective online and offline channels in which to develop a visible presence (for example, websites, blogs, podcasts, social networks, events, presentations). Students will l Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15 minutes (per Quiz)
 20 N Individual N  Self-Assessment 3 sets of worksheets (250 words each)
 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 2500 words: Plus Evidence (social media pages, posts, blogs, website, video, images etc)
 50 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Innovating, Creating and Problem Solving, Minor (0283) Personal Innovation, Minor (0284) Screen Media, Major (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)