Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 4001 Business Analysis Seminars Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200896 Coordinator Aila Khan Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to exemplary research in selected contemporary issues in business practice and policy.  Presented through a series of seminars by leading business academics, selected issues will be examined in terms of the competing definitions of the problem, the methods of analysis to be used to address the problem, components of the problems and relationships to other contemporary issues.  As business research is inherently inter-disciplinary and involves multiple stakeholders, relevant and competing theoretical perspectives explaining selected issues will be examined. Different methods of investigation and analysis of issues will be evaluated. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies/Master of Research. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Synthesise and critically evaluate contemporary business theories and practices
Demonstrate an advanced understanding of a range of theoretical approaches in business
Describe the inter-disciplinary nature of business research
Describe in detail and apply a minimum of two advanced quantitative analysis techniques
Communicate advanced knowledge of a research program to a general audience
Identify differing stakeholder groups and outline their engagement with contemporary business research
Critique academic debates in specific business research areas, outlining the different methods of investigation employed Subject Content This subject draws upon the varied discipline expertise of leading School of Business academics to present candidates with an overview of a variety of methods and methodologies employed in business research. Using contemporary research projects as case studies in research practice, candidates will first be introduced to the context in which the research is undertaken. This will be followed by an introduction to the theoretical framework the research is approached from and how this determined the data collection, analysis and interpretation that was undertaken. Methods of analysis that will be featured in this seminar series will include ANOVA, common factor analysis; correlation analysis; forecasting; linear, nonlinear and multiple regression; logit analysis; principal components analysis; structured equation modelling; time series analysis among others. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 3 minutes, 1 PPT slide 20 N Individual Y  Essay 2000 words equivalent 50 N Individual Y  Report 4 x 500 words (2000 words) 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Aila Khan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Business and Management (BUSM)