Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7017 Gynaecological Surgery Ergonomics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401059 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  This subject provides students with the knowledge on surgical ergonomics in both open and minimally invasive gynaecological surgery.    This subject will extend their knowledge in theoretical and practical aspects, focusing on strategies to maximise ergonomics and its effects on situational awareness, communication and leadership during gynaecological surgery.  Students will explore factors associated with gynaecological surgery ergonomics, such as surgeon and surgical assistant positions, theatre setup, incision sites, port placement and surgical techniques to maximise surgical ergonomics in order to reduce surgeon fatigue, injury and improve patient safety and outcomes.   It is expected the student will be able to perform operations safely, with economy of movement to optimise surgeon comfort and ultimately improve patient outcomes. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4766 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery or 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of a Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) with satisfactory completion of RANZCOG written examination as per enrolment restrictions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the factors that influence surgical ergonomics with various approaches to gynaecological surgery
Develop effective techniques in gynaecological surgery to optimise surgical ergonomics leading to safe work practices
Critically analyse the benefits of improving surgical ergonomics from a patient, surgeon and surgical team perspective
Examine strategies to improve theatre communication, situational awareness and leadership in an operative setting
Reflect on specific aspects of surgical ergonomics in gynaecological surgery to enhance professional practice Subject Content 1. Factors that influence ergonomics within different approaches to gynaecological surgery including surgeon and surgical assistant positions, theatre setup, incision sites, port placement and surgical techniques
2. he benefits of improving surgical ergonomics for both the surgeon and patient
3. Strategies to improve theatre communication, situational awareness and leadership in an operative setting
4. Current practices to ensure safe work practices to protect both patients and staff Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Total 5,000 words: 1a. Literature Review 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. Reflection ~1,000 words (SLOs 2, 5) 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery (4766) Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)