Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1023 Introduction to Human Biology (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700061 Coordinator Carissa Hanes Opens in new window Description This subject gives a basic understanding of the human body and introduces the scientific and medical terminology used for anatomy, physiology and biochemistry.  It deals with gross structure and microscopic structure of the human body.  It also examines microbial organisms, their classification, how they differ from eukaryotic cells and how our body defends against them.  Where appropriate, examples of functional diseases will be discussed. School Science Discipline Human Biology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students must pass NATS 0006 - Fundamentals of Health Science (WSTC Prep) prior to enrolling in this unit (except for those enrolled in 7019 - Diploma in Health Science Fast Track as NATS 0006 is not in the Fast Track course structure) Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1022 - Introduction to Human Biology Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use the language of anatomy and physiology to accurately describe location of organs and movement of the body.
Describe the organisation of the human body.
Name the location of the major body cavities, their organs and the general function of these organs.
Define the structure and function of the typical cell and its organelles.
Describe the structure and function of different tissue types and organs.
Explain the basic anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, respiratory and nervous systems.
Describe the basic pathophysiology of major diseases affecting the human body systems including dementia, coronary heart disease, diabetes, cancer, asthma, osteoporosis and infectious diseases. Subject Content 1. Anatomical terminology
2. Basic cell biology, histology and biochemistry
3. Location and function of major organ systems and tissues with emphasis on the cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, respiratory, nervous, urogenital and immune systems.
4. Basic introduction to the pathophysiology of common human diseases such as dementia, coronary heart disease, diabetes, cancer, asthma, osteoporosis and infectious diseases. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Pre-Workshop Quizzes, Workshop Participation 30-40 minutes 40 N Individual   Intra-session Examination 1 hour 20 N Individual   End-of-Session exam 2 hrs and 20 mins 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)