Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 1006 Human Relationships and Life Transitions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401005 Coordinator Rebecca O'Reilly Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to develop an understanding of human relationships and life transitions, and introduces concepts that inform nursing and midwifery practice. The subject explores frameworks that support an understanding of the psychological, social, cognitive and moral components of human development throughout the lifespan, the development of self, and normative (expected) and non-normative (deviation from the expected) life transitions in the context of people realising their health potential. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online or 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery. Students must be enrolled in 4780 to enrol in WSU Online Campus subjects. Unitrack students may study this subject as a miscellaneous subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the components of human development including psychological, social, cognitive and moral components of human development throughout the lifespan from pre-birth to older age.
Explain the factors that contribute to the development of a sense of self including shaping of social identity, self-concept and the development of self-esteem.
Explain the nature of human relationships across the lifespan, social attachments and the influence of culture on human development.
Describe a range of life transitions: a. Normative b. Non-normative
Identify coping strategies used to manage life transitions in each stage of the lifespan
Explain the relevance of human relationship and life transition concepts to nursing and midwifery practice Subject Content 1. Human development
2. Holistic overview of human development - social, psychological, cognitive, moral and cultural aspects
3. Sense of self
4. Understanding self concept and social identity
5. Social influences in developing a sense of self
6. The development of self-esteem
7. Human relationships throughout the lifespan
8. Establishing and maintaining relationships
9. Attachment and bonding
10. Normative life transitions throughout the lifespan
11. Introduction to theories of human development, including theoretical frameworks, normative and non-normative transitions and response to major life transitions throughout the lifespan
12. Cultural differences in acknowledging and dealing with implications for predictable life transitions
13. Non-normative life transitions across the lifespan
14. Human development: individual differences, making adjustments and adaptations
15. Ego defence and coping mechanisms
16 Cultural differences in acknowledging and dealing with unpredictable and unanticipated life transitions with a focus on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
17.Understanding the spectrum of wellness to illness throughout the lifespan ? coping with stress and trauma Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online Quiz 60 minutes 30 N Individual   Presentation 15 Minutes  30 N Group   Final Exam - Online 1 hour/50 MCQ's 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)