Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 3014 Genes, Genomics and Human Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300820 Coordinator Graham Jones Opens in new window Description A genome is all of the genetic information that makes us who we are. Beginning with an overview of the evolution of the human genome, this subject will introduce you to current concepts in gene regulation and how genetic variability is correlated with susceptibility to rare and common disease in individuals and populations. You will also gain practical experience in key methods and analyses of genetic variation and understand how such techniques are delivering new insights into the origins and treatment of human disease. School Science Discipline Genetics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2018 Genetics Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the structure of the human genome and common genetic variants in the genome
Explain the mechanisms by which the integrity of the human genome is maintained and relate errors in these pathways to human health
Compare and contrast the genetic basis of rare single-gene Mendelian disorders with common complex multi-gene disorders
Describe methods of genetic analysis as applied to single gene and multi-gene disorders
Evaluate the role of genetics in exploring the relationship between lifestyle, the environment, and common human diseases
Gather information, plan, complete and analyse experiments in molecular genetics Subject Content 1. Genetic variability in the genomes of modern and ancient human genomes and between populations of modern humans  
2. The complexities of gene regulation in the era of genomics   
3. Methods of genome and transcriptome sequencing and genotyping 
4. A genomic view of human immunology 
5. Translating genomics to an understanding of immune disease 6. Ethics and genomics 7. Methods in immunology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 2000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 2000 words 30 N Group N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Graham Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Graham Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Cell and Molecular Biology, Major (0167) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Secondary Biology Education, Major (0348)