Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1007 Creative Arts for Early Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102664 Coordinator Joanne Frost Opens in new window Description This subject will engage students in developing a critical appreciation for the role of the arts in their own right, in society and in the early years. Students will develop appreciation for the relevance of the arts in children’s play and identity formation, and as meaning making and communication tools. Opportunities for creative thinking and creative expression will be explored firsthand through introductory experiences and theory in the areas of drama, music, visual arts, dance and media arts. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes Explain the social and cultural place of the arts in contemporary, diverse and inclusive societies.  
Develop practical skills and knowledge through introductory experience and theory in drama, music, visual arts, dance and media arts.
Discuss the role of the creative arts as meaning making tools in individual, family, social and cultural contexts including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the cultures of the Asia region.
Develop an appreciation for the relevance of the arts in children’s play and identity formation.
Identify a personal philosophy about the role of the arts in society. Subject Content Theories and structural elements of the main art forms
Exploration of practices in the creative art areas including drama, music, visual arts, dance and media arts 
Resources and materials that are used in art making and creative expression
The arts as a vehicle for self-expression, problem solving and critical reflection
Meaning making, and the way in which the arts contribute to identity formation in children and support creative communication in socially and culturally diverse contexts particularly for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the cultures of the Asia region
Reflection on personal arts related experiences and understandings of theory to develop a personal philosophy about the role of the arts in society Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Annotated Bibliography 150 words x 6  30 N Individual Y  Portfolio Artefacts (reflecting 5 hrs engagement in three art forms) and written summaries (300 words each for each of three art forms) 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Joanne Frost Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)