Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 1013 The Australian Macroeconomy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200549 Coordinator Andrew Marks Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to macroeconomic concepts, analysis and issues in the Australian context.  Basic concepts introduced and applied include: national income accounting, economic structure, price indexes and inflation, the balance of payments, and labour market aggregates.  These concepts are applied in describing and explaining the recent evolution of the Australian economy in terms of growth, structural change, price stability, and employment.  This leads to a discussion of major policy issues such as the role of governments in managing economic fluctuations, and the implications of Australia's foreign liabilities. The course ends with a brief introduction to modelling income determination. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ECON 1008 - Macroeconomics Assumed Knowledge HSC Mathematics. Learning Outcomes Define, understand and employ standard macroeconomic concepts to describe actual economies;
Describe the macroeconomic features of the Australian economy and their recent evolution;
Find, present, manipulate and interpret time-series data on important macroeconomic variables;
Identify the main instruments of government policy and explain their effects;
Discuss alternative views about macroeconomic policy;
Use simple models to make qualitative predictions on the likely macroeconomic effects of policy changes and external shocks. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Best 4/5 quizzes (5% each) x 60 minutes 20 N Individual N  Presentation a) One presentation or debate – up to 10 minutes in total. b) One impromptu presentation up to 5 minutes in total 15 N Group/Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Andrew Marks Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Economics for Secondary Teaching, Minor (0141) Economics, Testamur Major (T039) Economy and Markets, Major (0008) Economy and Society, Minor (0319) Macroeconomics, Minor (0293)