Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4010 Research in Nursing Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400803 Coordinator Peter Lewis Opens in new window Description Research is a necessary undertaking toward the continued development of nursing science and practice. The aim of this subject is to both broaden and deepen Bachelor of Nursing (Honours) students' understanding of research methods and to extend their ability to discuss, appraise the work of others and participate in their own research. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 7109 - Applied Nursing Research Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Nursing (Honours). Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Undertake advanced and complex electronic searches of data bases
	2. Critically appraise research articles, reports, and grey literature
	3. Analyse and synthesise the literature relevant to a chosen area of research
	4. Complete a succinct literature review of the student’s chosen area/topic and report findings that reflects critical judgement, reasoning and independent thought.
	5. Effectively communicate, with confidence and knowledge, literature on a chosen area/topic Subject Content 1. Overview of the research process and the scholarly review of literature
2. Articulation of the relationship between research, the nursing profession, clinical practice and evidence-based care and/or interventions.
3. Critical appraisal, analysis and synthesis of research reports and the literature
4. Application of critical judgement, reasoning and independent thought in writing/presenting a scholarly review of pertinent literature associated with a defined topic
5. Effective communication of research literature Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2000-2500 words 55 N Individual N  Report 1000-1500 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Peter Lewis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (Honours) (4529) Nursing (NURS)