Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3001 Applied Nutrition Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300908 Coordinator Li Li Opens in new window Description This subject builds on basic concepts in human nutrition and facilitates the study of nutrition needs across the lifecycle and for specific lifestyle and nutrition related diseases.  This study will incorporate how to assess nutritional status (incorporating anthropometric, biochemical, clinical, dietary and physical activity assessment) of individuals and groups, understand the strengths and limitations of various methods, how to manipulate diets to ensure nutritional sufficiency and how to provide nutrition education regarding lifestyle related diseases and sports nutrition. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects HLTH 3002 - Applied Nutrition Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge An understanding of human nutrition, food, the metabolism of micro- and macro-nutrients, nutritional needs in various contexts, the relationship between dietary intake and disease/health, and computer literacy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe, apply, and interpret results from, tools and methodologies (including anthropometric, biochemical, clinical and dietary) for assessing the nutritional status and level of physical activity of individuals and groups for various purposes
Explain the strengths, limitations (including measurement errors), validity and reliability of various nutritional status assessment techniques
Utilise nutritional analysis software to organise and present dietary data
Provide recommendations for meeting nutritional requirements for the prevention / treatment of lifestyle related chronic disease and for sports nutrition
Articulate food laws relating to the nutrition labelling of foods
Apply teaching and learning skills or styles for effective nutrition counselling and education Subject Content 1. Assessment of nutritional status
2. Anthropometric, biochemical, clinical and dietary assessment methods
3. Introductory methods to measure energy expenditure and physical activity levels
4. Use of nutritional analysis software
5. Application of reference values to findings from nutritional assessment methods
6. Manipulating existing diets
7. Provision of nutrition education for the prevention / treatment of lifestyle related chronic disease and for sports nutrition Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 3,000 words 40 N Individual N  Practical 15 - 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Presentation Presentation 15 minutes, 
Reflection report 500 words 20 N Group/Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes each 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Li Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Other Health (HLTH)