Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 1008 Sport for Social Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401243 Coordinator Andrew Grainger Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the concept of Sport for Development.  Students will explore the role sports and physical recreation can play in achieving positive social outcomes in communities, both locally and internationally. Students will learn about the multidisciplinary nature of Sport for Development and how the disciplines of health and sports science, sports management and community development come together in the planning, implementation and evaluation of sports and physical recreation projects. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of the sports industry, and an appreciation of the diverse communities that exist locally and internationally. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the multidisciplinary nature of Sport for Development.
Examine and discuss the roles sport and physical recreation play in contemporary society.
Evaluate the impact of sporting programs as an agent for change to generate positive social outcomes in communities.
Compare and contrast the different organisations operating in the Sport for Development field, both locally and internationally.
Critically evaluate real-world Sport for Development programs, both locally and internationally. Subject Content The role of sport in contemporary society
Sport as a catalyst for change; the social, health and educational outcomes sought through sport for development
The importance of an evidence based approach; planning, implementation and evaluation of sport for development programs
Understanding sport for development stakeholders and industry structure
Sport for development in an Australian context, including understanding the diverse role sport plays in community wellbeing, and the role of sport in terms of health and social engagement for the Australian community, including indigenous and immigrant communities
International sport for development, referring to developing countries and the mechanism by which sport can be used to support community development and improved quality of life Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Group N  Applied Project 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew Grainger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Katherine Raw Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (4792) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Secondary PDHPE Education (Further Studies), Major (0357) Sport Development, Minor (0254) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)