Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7106 Professional Experience K - 6 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102111 Coordinator Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window Description Students will design and teach lessons and units of work in ways that enhance student engagement and learning outcomes making relevant links with NSW Education Standards Authority syllabus documents. This professional experience subject supports students to meet the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the graduate level by focusing on developing professional knowledge, effective pedagogical practices, responsive teaching, classroom management and engagement in the primary school context. The subject also gives students opportunities to reflect on their own teaching and learning, and to achieve professional goals. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7103 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7096 - Primary Professional Experience Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years) or 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise the learning strengths, capabilities and challenges of all learners within the context of their learning environment and local community. 
Design sequential lessons and units of work that apply knowledge of curriculum content and evidence-based pedagogies, utilising a range of resources that link meaningfully with NSW Education Standards Authorities syllabus documents and the Australian Curriculum.
Apply assessment moderation principles to monitor students' progress towards meeting learning outcomes, establish clear, achievable goals for future learning that provide achievable challenges for children of different abilities, and share feedback and goals with students and their families.
Implement appropriate, evidence-based pedagogies including a range of grouping strategies, questioning techniques, and prosocial guidance strategies designed to support student learning and promote student engagement and positive behaviours.  
Evaluate lessons, using reflection and assessment data and to inform future curriculum planning and practice.
Critically reflect on own learning, feedback from mentor teacher and university-based supervising teachers, and the National Professional Standards framework to develop and enact professional goals that broaden professional knowledge and practice.
Apply techniques that effectively support positive behaviour in classroom contexts, including the use of calm, consistent and proportional responses and feedback. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must satisfactorily complete the national Literacy and Numeracy TEST prior to undertaking the final Professional Experience placement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days S/U Y Individual Y  Case Study Teaching Performance Assessment Case Study Report including evidence of 3 teaching events. S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Teacher Education (TEAC)