Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1044 Leadership in Complexity Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800239 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced Degrees. The subject focuses on theories and traits of different leadership styles in cross-disciplinary environments and their application in various contexts. Leadership is examined through multidisciplinary lenses thereby broadening students' perspectives of leadership and encouraging interdisciplinary thinking and action as emergent creative leaders. Students are challenged to lead in complexity and prepare for unknown futures and skill sets necessary to drive change through innovation. School Social Sciences Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 1016 - Leadership in a Complex World Incompatible Subjects Students cannot take BUSM 1044 if they have already taken BUSM 1036 Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their course with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this unit. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Enrolment in the unit for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes Analyse different leadership theories and styles in cross disciplinary contexts.
Discuss the interdisciplinary nature of leadership
Develop a personal leadership style by applying  leadership approaches and dimensions (ethics, entrepreneurship, and creativity) to effectively lead in complexity. 
Examine the role of leadership in social and institutional change.
Analyse leadership journeys of Indigenous Leaders. Subject Content Application of theories and concepts of leadership in cross disciplinary environments.
Leadership in context (including relational and distributive leadership).
Leadership and power: ethics, responsibility and why leadership matters.
Leadership and social change: diversity and ethical practice in leadership.
Leadership, change and innovation (creativity and design).
Leadership in complexity – creative leadership - Indigenous Leadership. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,200 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1500 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Bachelor of Social Science (Advanced) (1733) Business and Management (BUSM) Creative Leadership, Minor (0286) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027)