Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 7016 Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400911 Coordinator Karen Arblaster Opens in new window Description This subject introduces master's entry students to the theory and practice of occupational therapy. Students will explore the unique contribution of occupational therapists in the health care setting, apply theoretical and philosophical principles underpinning the profession to client groups, and learn analytical skills to examine the relationship between a person, their environment and their participation in daily occupations. The occupational therapy problem solving process will be briefly introduced. In addition, students will study clinical and professional competencies related to practice as a health professional. Finally, the above knowledge and skills will be applied during supervised fieldwork experience. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4664 Master of Occupational Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define occupational therapy and describe the history and development of the profession
Summarise the occupational therapy role in the Australian health care context across major practice areas
Evaluate the impact of health, disability and illness on occupational participation using the International Classifications of Function
Apply occupational therapy philosophical concepts and theoretical practice models to client case studies
Describe the occupational therapy problem-solving process of referral, assessment, goal setting, treatment planning, intervention, evaluation of outcomes and the role of evidence-based practice in this process
Conduct occupational analysis of client case scenarios using the Person-Environment-Occupation approach
Reflect on the role of a health professional, the nature of the helping relationship, and the role of teamwork in the health care context
Apply ethical practice principles to health care scenarios
Perform key professional competencies related to occupational health and safety, manual handling and health professional communication (interpersonal, written, and professional presentation) both in class and during fieldwork experiences
Apply the above knowledge and skills during fieldwork experiences Subject Content 1. Definitions of occupational therapy
2. History and development of the profession in Australia and internationally
3. Australian health care context and the role of occupational therapy
4. Major practice areas for occupational therapists
5. International classifications of function and health, conceptual models of disability, and personal narratives related to living with conditions that impact on occupational participation e.g. illness/disability/ageing
6. Occupational therapy philosophical concepts and theoretical practice models
7. Occupational therapy problem-solving process: referral, assessment, goal setting, treatment planning, intervention and evaluation of outcomes
8. The role of evidence-based practice in the problem solving process
9. Occupational analysis of client case scenarios using the Person-Environment-Occupation approach
10. The role of a health professional, rights and responsibilities
11. The nature of the helping relationship and duty of care to clients
12. Teamwork in the health care context and the role of other health professionals
13. Ethical principles relevant to health care professionals
14. Professional practice competencies: occupational health and safety, manual handling and written and verbal health professional communication (interpersonal communication, professional literacy, plagiarism, referencing, presentation skills)
15. Fieldwork experiences to consolidate the above knowledge and skills Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have: 1) submitted a Student Undertaking Form and have applied for a National Police Certificate;
2) submitted Working with Children Check Student Declaration;
3) provide evidence of compliance with the occupational screening and immunisation policy of NSW Health; and
4) possess a current First Aid Certificate approved by the WorkCover Authority. Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)