Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1012 Indonesian 102 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102326 Coordinator Anna Nettheim Opens in new window Description This is the second and last introductory subject in the Indonesian Language Specialisation. The subject further develops the basic language and communication skills students acquired in Indonesian 101 through the use of activities designed to practice and reinforce Indonesian language and grammar skills. This subject will also introduce a greater focus on the socio-cultural and linguistic diversity found in Indonesia through online powerpoint lectures and accompanying notes. The subject focuses on four language skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing). Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Course Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1011 Learning Outcomes Demonstrate listening and reading comprehension of simple non-technical sentences in Indonesian
Communicate in Indonesian orally and in writing at a post-beginner level
Communicate in Indonesian in a culturally appropriate manner, using basic grammatical constructions
Retrieve and apply knowledge about Indonesian culture and society in a variety of contexts. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Speaking task
 4-5 mins 20 N Individual   Quiz 250 words each 20 N Individual   Writing task 200 words 20 N Individual   Research Project/Report
 1,000 words in English 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)