Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7011 Assessment and Intervention for Mathematics and Numeracy Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102324 Coordinator Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window Description A significant aspect of teachers' work is focused on assessment and mathematics classrooms are renowned for their traditional reliance on pen and paper testing. In this subject students will investigate contemporary formative and summative assessment practices of and for learning mathematics. Students will investigate how to use results from assessments including NAPLAN to plan teaching and learning, and provide intervention where appropriate. A range of intervention programs used in Australian schools will be explored and compared. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1682 Master of Special Education; 1720 Master of Inclusive Education; 1830 Graduate Certificate in Primary Math Education; 1847 Master of Education (STEM) or 1911 Master of Education. Assumed Knowledge Students must be either within their final semester of the Master of Teaching (Primary) program; Master of Teach (Birth to 12) or enrolled in the Master of Inclusive Education or a qualified primary teacher. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify a range of high quality assessment tasks that are aligned to the Australian Curriculum: Mathematics
Select formative and summative assessment tasks that address specific content in the primary mathematics curriculum
Analyse assessment data to assist in addressing student needs
Propose learning interventions based on assessment data
Justify the use of specific intervention programs used in Australian primary mathematics classrooms
Compare intervention programs in relation to their effectiveness and feasibility in Australian primary mathematics classrooms Subject Content 1. Formative and summative assessment practices for the contemporary primary mathematics classroom
2. Assessment practices to promote positive engagement, growth mindset and positive mathematics identities
3. Laying Foundations for Assessment
4. Evidence-based practice
5. Dealing with high-stakes mathematics assessment
6. Which intervention?
7. Interventions and mathematics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 1,500 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Primary Mathematics Education (1830) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Mathematics Education, Testamur Major (T138) STEM, Testamur Major (T135) Teacher Education (TEAC)