Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7158 Researching Teaching and Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102852 Coordinator Mark Richards Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the premise that, in contemporary education environments, teachers continue to develop their professional knowledge and practice through their engagement in reflective inquiry. The capacity to read and make sense of research is an important professional attribute for teachers interested in sustainable practices, engaged inquiry learning by adolescents, and diversity, social justice and equity. The subject provides pre-service teachers with a starting point and practical insights into the day-to-day decision making of educators. The content will follow the order and logic that experienced researchers take in order to ensure quality in their research, and also to ensure that it is valid, reliable, ethical, useful and socially responsible. Given the professional skills required by teachers, the subject pays particular attention to the elements involved in action research. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7118 - Researching Teaching and Learning 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Master of Teaching (Secondary) or Master of Teaching (Primary) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Utilise a range of academic sources to select and evaluate published research relevant to a given educational issue or debate.
Engage critically with a range of research literature on a given educational issue or debate.
Analyse the key ideas, assumptions and domains of knowledge underlying aspects of research on a given educational issue or debate.
Contrast, synthesise and articulate key arguments in public discourse around educational issues or debates.
Interpret data concerning educational issues or debates in the educational research landscape.
Demonstrate how different sources and types of secondary school classroom/student data are suitable to respond to different typologies of research questions and associated aims.
Explore how research data can be used to make evidence-based recommendations for teaching and learning. Subject Content 1. What is the value of engaging with educational research literature?
2. Where do we locate relevant peer-reviewed research?
3. What is the breadth of ?eevidence?f in educational research?
4. How can research literature inform public policy and debates around educational issues?
5. How do I become a critical reader of educational research?
6. How can engaging with the research literature inform my understanding of how students learn and factor that impact on learning?
7. How can engaging with research literature contribute to my ongoing development as a teacher?
8. What forms of data are schools collecting and how are they interpreting and using the data?
9. What are the limits and possibilities of data in schools? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 8 minutes 30 N Group Y  Reflection 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Nathan Berger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Pegah Marandi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)