Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7012 Network Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300255 Coordinator Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window Description The performance of any modern organization is heavily dependent on their networked systems and how these systems are managed. The increasing demand for ICT services and the huge growth of the Internet have resulted in large heterogeneous networks. This subject addresses the issues relevant to management of such networks and the services that run on them. It covers the principles and current practices pertinent to integrated management of networks, systems, and services. The subject helps the students to understand relevant protocols, standards, and standards organizations. It also introduces them to trends and key research areas in management of networked systems. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Networks and Communications Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFO 7002 Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence OR
COMP 7015 Programming Proficiency AND INFS 7007 System Analysis Database Management Systems OR
MATH 7012 Programming for Data Science AND MATH 7016 The Nature of Data Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Familiar with the fundamentals of computer networking and data communications.  In particular, a good understanding of the OSI model, the internet protocol suite and current internet technologies. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe network management functions and architecture
Describe important standards and protocols for network and system management
Describe various management functions and applications
Explain important aspects of integrated management of services and applications
Explain the role and functions of network management software and platforms
Discuss the emerging trends in management of networked and distributed systems
Explain key research issues in management of networked systems Subject Content Overview of Networking and Network Management
Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) and Related Standards
Common Management Information Protocol (CMIP) and Related Standards
Broadband Network Management
Telecommunications Network Management
Network Management systems
Network Management Applications
Web-Based Management
Research in Network Management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Pop quizzes - Multiple choice or short answer quizzes based on the material covered to the point. Short quizzes during Lecture sessions. There will be 4 quizzes. Each quiz is worth 5% and will last a maximum of 10 minutes. 20 N Individual   Project or Case Study - Report and its Presentation Report 10 pages long 30 N Group   Final Exam Two hour, closed book written exam 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)