Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7097 Time and Quality Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301195 Coordinator Ali Al-Ashwal Opens in new window Description This subject introduces time and quality management using basic planning and quality concepts. The subject will cover concept of planning and critical path methods including Project Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT), Line of Balance (LoB), Resource Management and Network.  Relevant time management software is to be introduced in this subject to plan and manage project activities.  The subject will also help students to understand and analyse quality system accreditation process and manage scope and changes in a project. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Quality Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3752 Master of Project Management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan a project using basic principles to complex methodology, planning logic and use of relevant software.
Analyse scope and resource management and work methods for a project.
Evaluate and Review project progress and manage changes and their impact.
Relate Quality Management Systems and Principles to a project.
Produce a project quality plan for a project as per international quality standards. Subject Content The Concept of Planning and Critical Path Method (CPM)
Resource Management
Scheduling Techniques; Project Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT), Line of Balance (LoB) and Resource Management and Network
Relevant Scheduling Software (Primavera, Microsoft Projects, etc.)
Quality Management tools
Quality Management System and Accreditation
Statistical Quality Control
Scope Management
Change Management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 3000 words 30 N Both (Individual & Group) Y  Report 3000 words 30 N Both (Individual & Group) Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ali Al-Ashwal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Project Management (3787) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Project Management (3786) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Project Management (3752) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other information Technology (INFO)