Academic Handbook Current Edition GEDU 0016 Employability and Graduate Success (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 15 Coordinator David Curtin Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to complement the first six months of study in a College Diploma program by developing the skills required to be successful at University and beyond. 

The subject is delivered online with students accessing learning modules and connecting with their learner community in their own time and at their own pace to allow maximum flexibility. 

At the beginning of the subject students use diagnostic tools to identify their specific strengths and areas for improvement, and develop an individualised learning journey through the content. This learning journey will help to address individual study skill needs, while also developing employability skills, facilitating connection with peers and with the University community, as well as the student’s future career. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 15cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Assess your own study strengths and areas for improvement.
Demonstrate an understanding of how to incorporate sustainable study practices into your current circumstances.
Demonstrate basic skills and strategies to enhance your study success.
Demonstrate digital literacy to navigate university systems, access learning and connect with the digital world.
Identify pathways to personal and professional fulfilment. Subject Content Skills and behaviours that enhance success at university and in professional settings
	
Time management
Digital literacy
Networking
Communication
Literacy
Critical thinking


Development of individual learning model and objectives
Strategies for mental/physical health & wellbeing
College systems and policies
Identifying pathways for career direction and development Time management
Digital literacy
Networking
Communication
Literacy
Critical thinking Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation  S/U N Individual N  Learning Contract  S/U N Individual N  Log/Workbook 5 skills per module S/U N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) General Education Programs (GEDU)