Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7038 Social Marketing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201025 Coordinator Susan Strmecki Opens in new window Description Social Marketing is the application of marketing concepts to the achievement of social ends. Usually this will involve changing attitudes and behaviours in a way that benefits both individuals and communities. This subject builds students' knowledge of how social marketing theory can be used to facilitate behaviour change and improve social outcomes within communities. It will include how to design, manage and evaluate social and behaviour change programs. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Assumed Knowledge An understanding of marketing theory and relevant principles is assumed. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate social marketing problems based on social marketing theory to suggest ways of changing attitudes or behaviours
Investigate the stakeholders involved in social marketing issues and their role as target markets in social marketing campaigns
Assess the role of marketing activities in achieving change for individuals and communities
Evaluate the economic, social, and environmental consequences of a social marketing strategy and develop recommendations Subject Content 1. Social marketing strategy
2. Stakeholder analysis and target markets
3. Behaviour and attitude change theory
4. Analysis of social marketing campaigns
5. The ethical implications of social marketing campaigns for community and individuals Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words or equivalent 30 N Group Y  Case Study 2,000 words 35 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sarah Duffy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Master of Marketing (2817) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)