Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7024 Health Services Financing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401362 Coordinator Lei Si Opens in new window Description This subject provides health leaders with an introduction to financial management in both public and private sector health services. The learning from this subject forms a basis for understanding the impact of leadership decision-making on financial outcomes and how financial decision-making impacts on clinical service delivery. The development of different approaches to funding to address issues of effectiveness, efficiency and acceptability (including equity) are examined. Pressures for reform are linked to developments at various levels of management and organisation type to enable analysis of potential impacts on clinical delivery. Students will critically analyse the relationship between performance and principles of governance, focusing on developing an improvement in the quality of service delivery. Reflective practice will be used to facilitate the application of resource management and clinical governance to a self-identified workplace issue warranting a clinical governance business case. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) PUBH 7031 Equivalent Subjects HLTH 7005 Health Financial Management Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Competent use of Microsoft Excel, and high school mathematics (arithmetic, formulas and algebra, reading graphs). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse funding arrangements used internationally in comparison to those used within the Australian Healthcare system
Examine recent reforms in funding, including government funding, non-government funding and user pays in the Australian and international context.
Translate key health financial principles and language into practice.
Create a budget with consideration to financial risks from a zero-base for a proposed health service.
Analyse budget variances and evaluate options to mitigate financial risks. Subject Content 1.International comparison of healthcare systems
2.Budgeting for health
3.The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
4.Medicare and the role of private healthcare in Australia
5.Accounting and budgeting principles
6.Casemix and DRGs
7.The State Budget
8.Healthcare Agreements and Planning
9.The Private Public Partnership and Capital Charging
10.Cost-benefit analysis of capital projects in healthcare
11.Financial Risks in Healthcare Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 500 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 500 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Lei Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Lei Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Lei Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management (4777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Health (HLTH) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)