Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6002 Reading and Writing Australia Credit Points 10 Coordinator George Haddad Opens in new window Description This subject will be a course of reading, taking in a variety of Australian narratives across the country’s long cultural history. Students will look at art, oral storytelling, film, fiction, poetry and non-fiction, and use these texts as a jumping-off point or inspiration for their own work, simultaneously finding themselves in and creating new spaces in Australian narrative. The subject will consider Indigenous storying, urban and regional literatures, colonial legacies and how these shape aesthetics and narratives of belonging. Does Australia have a national literature, and if so, what does it mean to writers and readers in the 21st century? School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7022 - Writing Sounds Images Texts Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 - Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing or 8083 - Bachelor of Research Studies Learning Outcomes 1. Assess the ways in which different Australian contexts can shape and influence creative writing
2. Critically analyse the relationship between writers and artists practising in other forms
3. Appraise the relationship between cultural movements and Australian literature
4. Critique the approaches to style and content in the work of significant Australian writers
5. Integrate key techniques of Australian creative writing into written work Subject Content 1. Close reading of a variety of Australian texts
2. Writing creatively in response to Australian texts
3. The interaction between art forms
4. Engagement with cultural contexts
5. The opportunity to share creative work with an experienced tutor and fellow students Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 4000 words OR 3000 words (or equiv) plus 1000 word essay 90 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact George Haddad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1833) Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)