Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 4001 Block Clinical Practicum Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401104 Coordinator Xiaoshu Zhu Opens in new window Description This subject provides the student with intensive, supervised clinical practice experience. Arrangements are usualy made for students to complete this stage in China. Due to the travel restriction as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, this subject in 2020 is wholly offered in Australia. The subject represents the final clinical practicum stage with an opportunity in develoing clinical skills. Students will be expected to demonstrate competence in handling patients in a clinical context, and manage their integrated care using Traditional Chinese Medicine. School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Incompatible Subjects CMPL 7002 - Block Clinical Practicum (PG) AND LGYA 7257 - Block Clinical Practicum Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Traditional Chinese Medicine program. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed the student will have a thorough knowledge of TCM theory, acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine and have completed all (or close to all) clinical hours under supervision.   As a core competency in registered TCM practice this is not a suitable subject for other health disciplines. Learning Outcomes Synthesise knowledge and competency in the practice of all TCM clinical areas;
Demonstrate competence in the design and formulation of care of patients in a clinical context;
Correctly diagnose, prescribe and administer treatment;
Examine issues related to the care of patients in a multidisciplinary environment;
Understand the importance of culture and diversity in professional settings. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 400 hours 10 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook Brief documentation on 100 patients, with at least 40 patients from the internal medicine department and at least 40 patients from the acupuncture departments 20 Y Individual Y  Viva Voce Assessment of two patients with three detailed case histories (including diagnosis, treatment principles, treatment administration, follow-up) 70 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Xiaoshu Zhu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine (4710) Complementary Therapies (CMPL)