Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3005 Critical Literacies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102678 Coordinator Christine Jones Diaz Opens in new window Description This subject increases students’ understanding of literacy as a dynamic, social and cultural practice. It explores the changing nature of literacy by globalisation, new technologies and the diversity of language/language dialects. Students will explore the importance of valuing children’s culture, home language/dialect as an integral component to identity, particularly for bilingual and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. Issues of power and language are considered through social, cultural and critical theories surrounding diversity and difference, and how this shapes the decisions of educators to build the literacy capacities of all children. Students will learn about contemporary frameworks of literacy and language and draw on this knowledge to extend children’s literacy learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have successfully completed 80 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Examine contemporary views of literacy, literacy learning, and literacy as a social practice.
Analyse issues of language, culture and identity and the power of language to privilege/marginalise.
Discuss the diversity of literacies, languages and dialects in Australia and different approaches to the revival and retention of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and community languages.
Apply respect for diverse literacies and understandings of issues of gender, class and language through a critical literacies approach. 
Analyse family literacy practices and children’s literacy funds of knowledge.
Plan literacy-enriched play that builds on children’s family literacies and scaffolds children’s literacy learning. Subject Content Literacy as a social practice
Multi-literacies; multimodality, diverse texts and literacy practices, diverse languages/dialects including Aboriginal languages and community languages, globalisation and new technologies
Bilingualism and Multilingualism
Language and power; linguistic and cultural capital
Diverse dialects including Aboriginal English; language loss, language maintenance & language revival
Children’s funds of knowledge 
The role of play-based pedagogies in literacy learning 
Selecting and sharing children's literature Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 10 x 100 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Christine Jones Diaz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)