Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7002 Practice of Cardiac Sonography 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401189 Coordinator Paul Stoodley Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will learn how to acquire and optimise ultrasound images and to make key measurements. They will learn to draw conclusions about cardiac anatomy and function based on images and measurements and will develop their professional and ethical skills by learning how to plan and implement a cardiac ultrasound scan in a safe and ethical manner. The skills and knowledge learnt in this subject, which includes a work-integrated learning component, provide foundational skills in cardiac sonography. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) RADI 5001 - Physics for Diagnostic Ultrasound Assumed Knowledge Applicants for this program must have successfully completed an undergraduate degree in natural and physical sciences or health. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Integrate transducer manipulation and machine optimisation to acquire standardised ultrasound images
2. Implement anatomical and physiological measurement techniques to address clinical indications
3. Identify normal and abnormal cardiac ultrasound features to support clinical outcomes
4. Plan examinations and structure workflow to ensure best patient outcomes
5. Apply a legal, ethical and safe work frameworks in professional practice
6. Document clinical experiences and activities to form reflective skills. Subject Content Module 1: Sonographic Practice 1
I. Anatomical planes and sonographic nomenclature
II. Ultrasound machine operation Module 2: Professional & Ethical Practice 1
I. Planning and implementing an ultrasound examination
II. Legal and ethical practice
III. Work health safety & ergonomics
Module 3: Speciality Knowledge & Imaging Skills 1
I. Cardiac anatomy 1
II. The cardiovascular system 
III. Electrophysiology 1
IV. Image acquisition & measurement 1
V. Image acquisition & measurement 2
VI. Fundamental machine operation 1
VII. Fundamental machine operation 2 Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in locations other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be competed if, and when required). Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2 cardiac sonography cases with questions and answers 25 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 175 scans + Quality & Reflective activities S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Paul Stoodley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Cardiac Sonography (4743) Master of Cardiac Sonography (4751) Radiography (RADI)