Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3019 Welfare Field Education 2 (Block Mode) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 101769 Coordinator Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term). This subject enables students to participate in a structured and supervised field placement (260 hours). Welfare Field Education 2 (Block Mode) provides students with the opportunity to extend their knowledge and experience in linking theory with practice and develop their skills for community work in the human services sector. Placements are offered in a variety of agency types spanning all areas of community work practice: work with individuals, groups and families, community development, research and policy. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Welfare Studies and Services, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7657 - Welfare Field Education 2 (AREPMETRO) WELF 3018- Welfare Field Education 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed a minimum of 80 credit points including subject 101765 - Welfare Field Education 1 (Block Mode). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate the skills needed for working in welfare and community organisations
Show evidence of networking and career planning
Demonstrate an advanced level of knowledge and skills in welfare practice
Critically evaluate their own performance, a variety of aspects of agency functioning
Demonstrate an ability to critically assess the need for appropriate services and be able to take action to develop these services. Subject Content Casework skills, including assertiveness and strategies and techniques for working with a range of client groups
The contexts of welfare and community work ? community, institutional and governmental structures and inter-connections
Group work skills
Community work skills
Ethical practice in welfare work
Resume writing skills and career planning
Occupational Health and Safety issues including dealing with violence in the workplace
Peer support and supervision on placement
Integration of theory with practice
Debriefing placement experiences
Advanced report writing Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1000 words
 Satisfactory / Unsatisfactory  Y Individual Y  Professional Task 1500 words
 Satisfactory / Unsatisfactory  Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 260 hours
 Satisfactory / Unsatisfactory  Y Individual Y  Report 2000 words
 Satisfactory / Unsatisfactory  Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF)