Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 4021 Sustainable Waste Engineering Credit Points 10 Description This subject explores the application of circular economy and zero waste principles alongside real-world case studies to focus on sustainable management of waste. Through a real-world design challenge students will apply learning to propose sustainable solutions that incorporate minimisation, recycling, recovery and disposable options. The skills and knowledge acquired in this subject can be applied to many career pathways including Engineering, Built Environment, and Science related disciplines. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Equivalent Subjects CIVL 4011
CIVL 3020 Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that the students have a good understanding of chemistry and engineering processes. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Analyse classification, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste.
Apply risk assessment principles to manage solid and hazardous waste in a sustainable way.
Design landfill sites for both urban and rural areas using sound engineering principles.
Use life cycle analysis to determine appropriate options for waste disposal, and recovery and recycling of materials.
Determine appropriate circular economy and zero waste approaches/ technologies to minimise waste generation.
Demonstrate communication and collaboration skills in working with others in an ethical and respectful manner to produce professional analyses and reports in sustainable waste engineering.
Identify waste management challenges in the context of local, national and international regulations/ guidelines.
Develop a business case incorporating economic, technical, environmental and social aspects for managing the waste. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2000 words 20 N Group N  Report 5000 words including figures, tables and pictures   And    3 minutes video 30 N Group Y  Reflection 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 3 hours 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)