Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3024 Crime, Media, Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102710 Coordinator Ken Yates Opens in new window Description There is a close relationship between representations of crime in mass and social media, and policy and legal responses to crime. Media consumers are producing and circulating content about crime and criminality through new media technologies, and some are using social media and the internet to engage in new forms of criminality. In this subject, we explore the complex role of mass media and 'new' media in debates over crime and crime control, and the facilitation of criminality by media technologies. This means studying contemporary media theory and its relevance for criminology, and the effects of social media and computing technology on representations and practices of criminality. The subject maintains a strong focus on the ways in which media and culture informs crime policy and criminal justice processes. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 3010 - Culture and Crime Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of foundational criminological theory. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the theoretical accounts and topics of research that are part of criminological media studies.
Make appropriate links between theoretical accounts and independent research.
Demonstrate the capacity to disseminate theoretical and empirical evidence of the links between culture, media and crime to a professional audience.
Critically assess cultural depiction of crime, criminals and the criminal justice system. Subject Content 1. An introduction to criminological media studies
  -  Examines the relationship between media, culture, and crime 2. The Spectacle and Hyper-Reality
  -  Explore how spectacular images are used to dramatise crime and criminal justice issues in ways that remove or simplify context, and the blurred distinction between the represented and the real. 3. News and true crime
  -  Examines how news and infotainment shape public perceptions of crime, harm, and crime control in popular culture. 4. Internet and social media 
  -  Introduces the internet as a ‘new media technology’ as a conduit for discourse and representations of criminality and also a potential instrument of criminality, with a focus on the effects of social media on contemporary society 5. Technology, technocultures, harm
- Examines how current and emerging social and information media technologies mediate and shape cultures and narratives around crime, social harm, and crime control. 6. Impact on policy and practice
  -  Provides case studies of the entanglement between media and cultural discourses of crime and public policy, legislative reform and policing practice. 7. Positioning the examination of crime, media, and culture in the (post) colonial context
- This subject will also incorporate reflection and examination of how the economic, social, political, and cultural legacies of colonialism relate to social harm, criminality, and crime control as cultural processes. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Log/Workbook 1000 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Ken Yates Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ken Yates Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ken Yates Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Ken Yates Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Ken Yates Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ken Yates Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminology (1710) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Major (0006) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Minor (0006) Cybersecurity Management, Testamur Major (T153) Other Society and Culture (CULT)