Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7015 Programming Proficiency Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301038 Coordinator Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window Description This subject is aimed at the students whose undergraduate study is in a discipline other than computing or information technology. This subject first covers the programming fundamentals on data types, conditional selections and loop structures, and then further develops the problem solving skills through the use of user-defined functions, records, files, as well as the basic concept and techniques of object-oriented programming. A high level programming language is employed to implement all the problem solutions. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss and explain the concepts of data and procedural representation, programming languages, compilers, interpreters, and development environments.
Design and/or represent programs with flow chart and pseudo code.
Use effectively the basic data types, selection control, and loop structure.
Utilise a high-level programming language to develop problem solutions using standard IO or a proper user interface, files, and record or class structure.
Apply a modular design or an OO design to the software solution.
Explain the concept of object-oriented programming, and apply the concept to developing a software solution within an OOP environment. Subject Content 1. The programming environment: computer systems architecture, hardware, operating systems, compilers, interpreters.
2. Data representation and basic data and multimedia types.
3. Program flowchart, pseudo code and the concept of algorithms.
4. Programming basics: syntax, declarations, operators, expressions, assignment, selection, iterations.
5. Other programming features: IO, GUI, functions, arrays, records, files, and classes.
6. Program design, and the coding, testing, and debugging of the programs.
7. The OOP paradigm, method overloading and overriding, inheritance and polymorphism.
8. The solution development within an OOP environment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 15 Y Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour 15 Y Individual Y  Quiz 2 hours 25 Y Individual Y  Practical 8 hours 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 8 hours 25 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Information and Communications Technology (3701) Graduate Certificate in User Experience (3788) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Systems (INFS) Information and Communications Technology, Major (0232) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)