Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3117 Place-Making for Tourism and the Cultural Economies Credit Points 10 Coordinator Felicity Picken Opens in new window Description The subject will explore the strategic use of practices and institutions like the arts, heritage, architecture and museums to enhance and attract creative economic activities. Theories that assist in framing and explaining these changes are presented and debated alongside exemplar and emerging case studies to encourage the analysis of space, culture and economic practice in contemporary contexts. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 3014 - Heritage Interpretation Learning Outcomes Describe the key contributors to the re-design of places in post-industrial contexts.
Apply knowledge of the museum as a microcosm of changes taking place in wider public settings. 
Produce a design, drawing on relevant theory and practice to enhance the cultural arts economy of Western Sydney.
Synthesise and critically evaluate challenges and opportunities in efforts to remake places for post-industrial economies. Subject Content Introduction: defining the key contributors to place-making in post-industrial contexts
Writing and reading spaces through architecture and design
Exemplars and antecedents of remodelling places as consumption-scapes
Interpreting spaces through universal markers and marks of distinction
Models of material culture & the implications for interpreting heritage
Understanding the public/consumer/visitor
Engaging the public/consumer/visitor
Interpreting places through digital modes of consumption
Future directions: embodiment, mobilities, aesthetics and digital media Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minute oral presentation   500 words 25 N Group N  Reflection 500 words 15 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Felicity Picken Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Heritage and Tourism, Minor (0012) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Place Management and Planning, Major (0304) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Tourism Management, Major (0302) Tourism Management, Minor (0302)