Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3023 Climate Change and Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101870 Coordinator Fiona R Cameron Opens in new window Description This subject introduces climate change as a complex social, cultural and political phenomenon, one that is re-shaping the way we live in the world and future lifestyles. Because climate change is highly contested, the course critically examines the issue from different theoretical, disciplinary, social and cultural perspectives. Topics range from cultural theory and forms of social action to the history and construction of climate change as concepts and debates around nature, culture, science, economics and consumption; to social justice, Indigenous knowledge systems, popular culture, the media and Australian politics, global governance, cities and urban planning. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: recognise climate change as a social, political, cultural and economic issue;
explain the complexities of current debates and issues governing climate change culture
apply knowledge of climate change issues and debate in written analysis;
demonstrate skills in online and library-based research. Subject Content . History and construction of climate change and global warming as concepts
. Science controversies and the construction of climate change
. Cultural theory, methodologies and social action
. Post humanism and the climate crisis
. Debates around nature, culture, economics and consumption
. Climate change in popular culture
. Activism, new institutional forms and the climate crisis
. Indigenous knowledge systems
. Australian politics and global governance
. Cosmopolitics, social justice, climate refugees and immigration policy
. Technology and energy
. Food security
. Water
. Cities and urban planning
. Climate change and cultural institutions
. Communication and media as an intervening public
. Engaging with the Climate Crisis through Music and Art Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Written Assessment 300-500 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation and written report 10 mins: presentation 1500 words: report 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Fiona R Cameron Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainable Futures, Minor (0035)