Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 3008 International Special Study Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102193 Coordinator Jan Ali Opens in new window School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Political Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: comprehend culture, as it applies to a national and/or workplace setting;
apply existing knowledge to real-world situations;
integrate existing knowledge with new, on-the-spot discoveries;
demonstrate the impact of the subject on their intellectual development. Subject Content - Planned short course/internship in An international setting they intend to undertake.
- integration of knowledge gained in An international context with discipline knowledge.
- intercultural Understanding and skill development.
Planned short course/internship in an international setting they intend to undertake.
Integration of knowledge gained in an international context with discipline knowledge.
Intercultural understanding and skill development. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2,500-3,000 words or equivalent 60 N Group/Individual Y  Portfolio 5 minutes or 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 minutes 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Jan Ali Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Jan Ali Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) International Relations and Asian Studies, Major (0019) International Relations and Asian Studies, Minor (0019) Political Science and Policy (POLI)