Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4008 Integrating Research into Physiotherapy Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401109 Coordinator Luke Jenkins Opens in new window Description In this unit, students will further develop their evidence based practice skills and knowledge by applying it in practice settings. This will involve applying the academic knowledge and skills from three prior evidence based practice and research units by synthesising it with their clinical experience and skills. Students will be allocated a topic area from which they will identify a clinical "problem" or health-related issue. Students will then plan and design a robust research project to answer this question. Students will be expected to reflect on the barriers and facilitators of evidence-based practice, and develop strategies and interventions to be used to facilitate the implementation of evidence in practice by clients and health care practitioners. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 3005 OR
HLTH 4002 AND
REHA 3004 OR
REHA 4001 OR
REHA 4002 OR
REHA 4003 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7007 - Integrated Research into Physiotherapy Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy or 4707 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify an evidence-practice gap in clinical practice.
Generate a structured clinical question about an intervention for a clinical scenario.
Plan and design a robust research study for a specific population group ranging from movement control to lifestyle issues, remediation to health promotion.
Critically reflect on outcomes of prior research and justify research methodology.
Design strategies and interventions to facilitate the implementation of evidence by clients and practitioners.
Effectively communicate verbally and in a variety of written formats as required in various contexts e.g. clinical and academic. Subject Content Advanced, applied physiotherapy research practice including:
1. Planning an evidence-based research topic investigation
2. Theoretical and practical strategies to execute an evidence-based research investigation in a range of practice areas
3. Theoretical and research-identified facilitators and barriers to evidence based practice in clinical practice
4. Critical reflection on the execution of the evidence-based research investigation and identification of future learning needs
5. Advanced skills in reading and interpreting physiotherapy research evidence
6. Physiotherapy evidence for specific population groups, e.g. arthritis, back pain, occupational injury
7. Verbal and written skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 30 multiple choice questions 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,200 words proposal + 300 word promotion materials 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 5-slides 5 minutes presentation 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Roy Cheung Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)