Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 7003 Sustainable Visitor Economies Credit Points 10 Coordinator Joseph Cheer Opens in new window Description While the intersecting industries and mobilities that comprise the ‘visitor economy’ (e.g. tourism, events, international education, business travel, hospitality, accommodation, transport, etc.) have traditionally been observed individually, there is a growing recognition of the need for holistic approach to planning and managing these diverse sectors. This is especially important for accomplishing sustainability outcomes. In this subject, students will learn about principles and strategies for managing sustainable visitor economies. Industry and government stakeholders will share case-studies detailing their experiences managing visitor economies. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 6003 - Sustainable Visitor Economies Learning Outcomes 1. Analyse the role of visitor economies in different destination contexts.
2. Evaluate principles and strategies for managing visitor economies
3. Evaluate sustainable development goals in relation to visitor economies.
4. Propose strategies for managing visitor economies sustainably. Subject Content 1. Sustainable Tourism: Contemporary Issues and Perspectives
2. The Visitor Economy: Definitions and Parameters
3. Sustainable Tourism and the Visitor Economy: Impacts
4. Sustainable Tourism and the Visitor Economy: Policy, Planning and Development
5. Sustainable Tourism and the Visitor Economy: Building Destination Resilience
6. Sustainable Tourism and the Visitor Economy: Crisis Management
7. Prospects for Sustainable Tourism and the Visitor Economy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Joseph Cheer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1938) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism Futures (exit only) (1921) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (exit only) (1937) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Sustainable Tourism and Visitor Economies, Major (0320) Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management), Minor (0360) Tourism (TOUR)