Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1009 Engineering Materials (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700147 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce fundamentals of engineering materials.  The topics will include materials structure, properties, processing and applications, degradation of materials, sustainability and the selection of materials for various engineering applications. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1014 - Engineering and Design Concepts ENGR 1034 - Engineering and Design Concepts (UWSC) LGYB 0481 - Engineering and Design Concepts (UWSC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1008 - Engineering Materials ENGR 1010 - Engineering Materials (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge HSC mathematics (not General Mathematics), physics and chemistry. Learning Outcomes Describe and identify the atomic structure, bonding, crystal structure and defects of materials.
Explain the various properties of materials (eg mechanical, thermal, electrical, optical, magnetic.
Identify and explain the mechanical failures, corrosion and degradation of materials and how to prevent them.
Select an appropriate material for a given application.
Apply sustainability principles in engineering practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 6 hours 15 N Individual N  Quiz 10 x 0.5 hours = 5 hours 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hrs + 30 minutes for online submission 15 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam Part 1: 2 hours + 30 minutes for online submission
Part 2: 20 minutes per student 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)