Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1029 The Individual in a Global Context: The Concepts and Ideas that Shape Us (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to get you thinking critically about the world around you! We live in turbulent, uncertain times and this can often make us feel powerless. However, learning to think sociologically — and developing a critical understanding of how society and culture work — are the first steps towards understanding how to challenge disadvantage and create positive change. The purpose of this subject is to equip you with the skills to navigate a culturally and linguistically diverse society, including that of Greater Western Sydney. You will gain an historically informed, critical understanding of the meaning of culture, the impact of colonisation, Indigenous Australian cultures, and of approaches to diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. You will explore the value of existing and emerging skills in multilingualism and cross-cultural communication as tools to navigate a rapidly changing global environment. You will have the opportunity to develop your intercultural communication skills through interactive learning activities and a field-trip. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1053
HUMN 1056 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and explain sociological concepts, theories and frameworks of diversity, language and culture  
Demonstrate an understanding of the experiences of linguistically and culturally diverse social groups
Demonstrate the ability to ethically navigate intercultural settings
Demonstrate the ability to explore representations of diversity from a sociological perspective  
Reflect on how responsible local and global citizens communicate experiences of diversity in various contexts Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Short Answer 750 words 25 N Group N  Presentation 5 mins 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Society and Culture (CULT)