Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 3002 Clinical Assessment Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400879 Coordinator Sascha Baldry Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to introduce students to basic principles and essential skills of physical examination and diagnostic/laboratory investigation procedures, required for successful approach to diagnosis of health impairment states. Primary contact health practitioners are expected to have sound understanding of disease presentation, techniques of patient interviewing and examination for collection of relevant clinical information as well as the ability to select appropriate laboratory tests and interpret their findings. This subject will also help students to develop fundamental clinical reasoning skills required in the medical decision making process. School Health Sciences Discipline Medical Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2029 AND
NATS 1009 AND
NATS 1010 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7174 - Clinical Diagnosis Assumed Knowledge Understanding of human anatomy & physiology and pathophysiology of common impairments of health. Learning Outcomes demonstrate the ability to conduct a patient interview and to take a structured and directed patient history relating to the presenting complaint;
demonstrate competency in the physical examination of major body systems;
explain and interpret the clinical significance of common symptoms and signs in each system;
explain and interpret the results of common laboratory diagnostic investigations;
demonstrate the skills required in the clinical reasoning process. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours written exam (40%); Assessment plan 200-300 words + 10 minutes Video + Documentation 200 words 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sascha Baldry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine (4710) Medical Studies (MEDI)