Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2030 Industrial Experience (Associate Engineer) (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700311 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description Industry experience provides a significant opportunity for students to understand employer expectations in relation to working on projects and with others in a professional capacity. Students undertake six weeks full-time (37.5 hours per week) employment (or part time equivalent) to obtain relevant workplace experience in Engineering under the supervision of professional engineers in one or more companies. Students identify learning opportunities and goals with a focus on applying academic learning in practice, learning project management, work culture, professional attitude and self-awareness. Students develop critical reflective skills in reporting their progress. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering. Students must have completed 60 credit points. Assumed Knowledge A broad background knowledge in the relevant engineering discipline (ie equivalent to that obtained after completing one and a half (1.5) years of the associate engineering program). Learning Outcomes Demonstrate planning and goal setting skills with a comprehensive plan for work experience.
Critically reflect on personal and professional skills required for the workplace context.
Report on your experience applying academic learning in the workplace and on your experience learning engineering, engineering processes, and work culture in the workplace context.
Provide evidence of working effectively and inclusively with others in multi-disciplinary teams.
Assess your work performance using self-assessment and assessment by others. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Daily diary S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)