Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7034 Workplace Safety and Risk Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401373 Coordinator Jinal Parmar Opens in new window Description This subject provides a critical insight into the theory and practice of managing health and safety in the workplace. Students have the opportunity to develop a safety systems approach, concentrating on hazard identification, risk assessment and devising control measures incorporating safety management principles to address current and emerging workplace health and safety issues. Students will learn the importance of developing a safety culture in the workplace as a core principle of safe work system management. In addition, the subject addresses the legal underpinning of health and safety requirements at the workplace. Labour market change and the role of government, unions and employer organisations are also examined. Global perspectives on workplace health and safety from various jurisdictions are also scrutinised. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Health and Safety Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) PUBH 7031 Equivalent Subjects PUBH 7024 Safety and Risk Management Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the impacts of existing and emerging occupational health and safety issues.
Assess hazards and risk to determine appropriate actions and develop risk management strategies.
Translate the WHS framework, guidance materials and evidence into practice
Design strategies to improve workplace health and safety
Examine the role of culture and leadership in workplace safety and risk management.
Collaborate with stakeholders to plan and implement work health and safety processes. Subject Content 1.Workplace safety systems from a global and Australian perspective
2.Identifying Hazards and assessing risk
3.Emerging occupational health issues
4.Conducting a risk assessment and risk mitigation
5.Applying legislation and guidance material to risk management processes
6.Consultation
7.Evaluation in WHS
8.Safety culture and safety leadership
9.Managing Emergencies in the Workplace
10.Worker?fs compensation and return to work processes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,250 words 25 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,000 words 35 N Group Y  Professional Task 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Krista Reed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Krista Reed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Environmental, Testamur Major (T058) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Occupational Health and Safety (4779) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Management, Testamur Major (T043) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Public Health (PUBH)