Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3001 Advanced Business Seminars Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200572 Coordinator Marion Cornish Opens in new window Description A seminar series involving speakers from outside the university will present on current theoretical or practical issues affecting business and commerce. Students interested in this subject should contact the Subject Coordinator to see whether they qualify. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students must have successfully completed at least 90 credit points in business related units Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2787 Bachelor of Business (Advanced Business Leadership), 2789 Bachelor of Business (Advanced Business Leadership) / Bachelor of Laws, 2754 Bachelor of Business and Commerce (Advanced Business Leadership), 2747 Bachelor of Business and Commerce (Advanced Business Leadership) / Bachelor of Laws or 2741 Bachelor of Business and Commerce (Advanced Business Leadership). Students enrolled in the following programs may take this subject as an elective with Director, Academic Program approval: 2786 Bachelor of Business or 2739/2753 Bachelor of Business and Commerce; Students interested in taking this subject as an elective will have to apply to the Director, Academic Program who will decide whether the students fit the category of high potential students. If there are too many applicants the subject coordinator may rank the applicants and restrict the number of acceptances to an appropriate seminar size. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain and debate the theoretical or practical problems posed by the guest speakers;
Engage responsibly with individuals from diverse cultural contexts;
Appreciate the responsibility of corporate citizenship in solving business problems;
Demonstrate high level analytical skills in identifying and solving problems;
Demonstrate an enhanced awareness of the nature of the difficulties in implementing practical business solutions. Subject Content - participation in seminars on business and commerce and their current Issues
- demonstrating An ability to analyse, research and Debate such Issues
- explain and Debate The theoretical or practical problems posed by The guest speakers. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Participation in the seminar discussions each week 40 N Individual Y  Essay Three discussion papers of 2000 words 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Marion Cornish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)