Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4006 Engineering Project 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300971 Coordinator Kejun Dong Opens in new window Description This subject describes engineering as a profession, including professional ethics and legal obligations highlighted. Fundamentals and theories related to contract and project management will form part of this subject. Throughout the semester, the focus will be on development of research and presentation skills of students enrolled in this subject. This will be achieved through employment of appropriate research skills on a capstone project which demonstrates student's professional level of identifying, planning, and designing engineering project and completion of a technical progress report. The capstone project will be continued in subject 300972 Engineering Project 2. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Co-requisite(s) ENGR 3017 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Engineering, Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) or Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) and have successfully completed 200 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique technical publications;
Present written professional/technical reports;
Examine Engineering profession and the environment in which these professions operate;
Apply the process involved in contract and project management in Engineering industry via capstone project;
Analyse risk situations in an engineering project and manage them by applying the theories of risk management;
Apply WHS requirements to an engineering project;
Demonstrate an ability to work in a team. Subject Content 1. Research techniques and technical presentation
2. Technical and environmental risk management
3. Professional management principles and practices
4. Project initiation, tender process and tender analysis
5. Contract management, human resources management and value management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Research Proposal 15-20 pages. 35 N Group   Progress Report 30-40 pages. 65 Y Group Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)