Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3078 Spanish 305: Contemporary Literature Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100155 Coordinator Ignacio Garcia Opens in new window Description This is a compulsory subject for students of the BA (Interpreting and Translation) (Spanish), and one of the optional subjects for students with advanced language skills in Spanish enrolled in the BA. It aims to introduce students to the study of contemporary Hispanic literary works so that they may acquire an appreciation of contemporary Latin American and Spanish literature and an understanding of the historical, political and social contexts in which that literature developed. Emphasis will be placed on the writer's role as an interpreter and critic of society. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southern European Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: gain an understanding of the history of modern literature in Spanish;
improve their comprehension skills through reading a wide variety of Spanish texts, including regional and social variants, and specific registers;
understand some of the main events which shaped the character of Hispanic writing in the 20th Century;
gain insights into writers' attempts to interpret society (e.g. problems, trends, controversies);
acquire the vocabulary necessary to be able to discuss and write about the content and structure of these texts, as well as their historical and cultural context. Subject Content An overview of the history of literature in Spanish in the 20th Century.
Some significant events which had an impact on Hispanic literature: the Spanish-American War, the Spanish Civil War, the Cuban Revolution.
Examination of a selection of representative contemporary novels from Spain and Latin America.
Specific themes and leitmotifs developed by contemporary authors, e.g. passivity, waiting, guilt, love, uncertainty about identity.
The development of writing skills using genres such as reviews and essays. Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)