Academic Handbook Current Edition MGMT 3004 Statutory Valuation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200711 Coordinator Sharon Yam Opens in new window Description This subject covers the area of statutory valuation. It is the prescribed subject for registration as a valuer with the NSW Fair Trading. It is also the prescribed subject for Certified Practicing Valuer (CPV) membership of the Australian Property Institute. Upon completion of this subject, students will demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of the relevant property and related laws, necessary valuation methods and principles required for statutory valuations. School Business Discipline Valuation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 4819 - Compulsory Acquisition and Litigation Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge An understanding of the basic principles of land administration, in particular, the various interests to be held in land and forms of tenure;
An understanding of the NSW planning system, the development approval process and administrative controls over decision making;
An understanding of various valuation principles and methodologies and valuation of various types of property and interest in land. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of property and related laws and valuation methods related to compensation and resumption;
Explain the process of land acquisition or resumption, and the concepts of market value, special value to the owner, injurious affection, severance, enhancement, disturbance and a loss of goodwill;
Apply the important court decisions in compensation valuation;
Prepare a professional standard report on a parcel of real estate for the purpose of a claim for compulsory acquisition;
Discuss the role of expert witnesses or a legal representative in compensation disputes;
Apply legal and valuation concepts in assessing the compensation payable on a compulsory taking;
Explain the importance and responsibility of acting professionally as a valuer. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 4,000 words 30 N Group Y  Presentation 2 hour session 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sharon Yam Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Sharon Yam Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Other Management and Commerce (MGMT) Property, Testamur Major (T047)