Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4003 Early Literacies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102684 Coordinator Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window Description This subject explores the history of literacy in the early years from different theoretical perspectives and the tensions between theory, expectations and practice. It breaks down language development for diverse learners and develops students’ understanding of strategies to scaffold children’s language learning and development when working in diverse community contexts.  The subject builds on the previous subject of Critical Literacies and focuses the changing nature of literacy and the diverse literacy pathways individuals take up. Students will investigate the processes children go through when speaking, listening, reading and writing in the early years, and the interrelatedness of these processes to make meaning. Students will develop play-based, literacy-enriched experiences underpinned by contemporary literacy perspectives. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have successfully completed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Examine the history of literacy in the early years within the Australian context and the impact of policy and theoretical perspectives on practice.
Explore language development as it occurs from birth, with consideration of cultural, developmental and linguistic differences.
Discuss new literacies, multiliteracies and the role of ICTs in children’s literacy development.
Explore the processes of children as code breakers, meaning-makers, text participants, text users and text critics in early childhood contexts through a multiliteracies approach.
Analyse the tensions between theory, expectations and practice when supporting children’s literacy capabilities in prior to school settings. 
Apply a contemporary, multi-literacies approach when planning play-based learning experiences to extend children’s literacy. Subject Content Historical and contemporary literacy perspectives 
Language development, including bilingual/multilingual children, supporting Aboriginal Dialects/Aboriginal English and supporting children with additional speech, communication and language needs 
Young children as code breakers, meaning makers, text participants, text users and text critics. 
Multi-literacies 
Literacy learning through play
Transition to school and literacy learning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Critical Review 1,200 words 30 N Individual   Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)