Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2053 Narrative: Fictional Screen Media Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102829 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description In the 21st Century the nature of storytelling has evolved.  Fictional screen narratives are now delivered across multiple platforms, devices and spaces. At the same time different platforms are strategically used to extend and add new layers to stories while deepening audience interaction and engagement. This subject introduces students to more advanced principles and processes in the production of fictional screen media. Students will learn how to work effectively in collaborative production teams across various key roles in pre-production, production and post-production. Working in teams, students produce a creative cross-platform narrative screen media project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 1037 Digital Narrative Equivalent Subjects COMM 3020 - Media Arts Project Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply key concepts in cross platform fictional storytelling to project development.
Develop and write a proposal and script for a cross platform fictional project
Plan and produce a cross platform screen media project which includes a fictional narrative video.
Apply reflexive critical thinking to the creative process and to evaluation of their own and others' work.
Work independently and collaboratively on a cross platform fictional storytelling project. Subject Content 1. Advanced fictional scriptwriting concepts and methods.
2. Cross platform and 360 transmedia storytelling.
3. Relevant skills in cross platform fictional screen media production.
4. Professional production practices and creative processes for screen media practitioners working in collaborative teams.
5. Reflective online content production and publishing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz)  10 N Individual Y  Proposal 2,000 words or equivalent

 30 N Group/Individual Y  Applied Project Fiction film up to 7 minutes, 
plus at least one additional platform component  30 N Group Y  Reflection 1,500 words or equivalent 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)