Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 3006 Applied Clinical Sciences 1 Credit Points 80 Legacy Code 401278 Coordinator Priya Acharya Opens in new window Description This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Applied Clinical Sciences 1 is the first major clinical year of the Doctor of Medicine.  Students will apply and extend the knowledge and skills gained in previous subjects during clinical and community placement rotations.  Attachment modules Surgery 1 and General Medicine 1 each cover two placement rotations. The Critical Care 1 placement includes experience in the Emergency, Intensive Care, and Anaesthetics departments. The Medicine in Context 1 placement focuses on community-based aspects of the health care system, including community services and general practice. The Doctor of Medicine MD Scholarly Project attachment rotation will be conducted in a site suited to the student's medical research, service, or education project. Placement sites include the Campbelltown, Blacktown/Mt Druitt, Bankstown, Fairfield and Liverpool hospitals, and a variety of community organisations throughout the Greater Western Sydney region.  Theoretical Modules support student experiential learning and research skills development in the clinical and community placements. These are 'Evidence -based Medicine and Research Skills 1', 'Professional and Personal Development 1', 'Scientific Streams 1'. Students continue preparation of their Professional Practice Portfolio.  Students undertake a minimum of 1050 clinical practice hours, a 175- hour project rotation, and 3 conference weeks in this unit.  Travel and accommodation - Students are required to arrange and pay for their own travel, accommodation, and living expenses for the duration of the placement rotations. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 2003 Incompatible Subjects MEDI 3003 - Integrated Clinical Rotations 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4758 Doctor of Medicine. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Patient care - Provides patient centred care at all stages of care, from pre-pregnancy to end of life
Health in the Community - Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
Personal & professional development - Evaluates and continuously develops own personal and professional capabilities, and those of others
Scientific basis of medicine - Applies a sound understanding of the biomedical, psychological and social sciences to medical practice Subject Content 1. Theoretical Modules: 2. Attachment Modules (and clinical practicum): 3. Conferences Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students are required to obtain and provide all necessary documentation to be verified by NSW ClinConnect. This verification is a requirement of the NSW Health Department for all students enrolled in medical programs. If a student fails to produce this documentation to ClinConnect they will not be able to attend hospital and health service teaching sessions, and placements. Attendance is a mandatory requirement of the program to ensure that professional competencies are met. Failure to attend will result in a Fail grade for the subject. All Students 1. National Criminal History Check: Students must have a current check, valid for their entire program. Criminal history check must be an Australia wide check, include the student's full name matching their Student ID card and date of birth offences listed. If a student has a criminal history identified on their check, they must provide a Clinical Placement Authority Card (CPAC from the NSW HealthShare Employment Screening and Review Unit:https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/careers/student_clearance/Documents/appendix-10-student-application.pdf International students must additionally have a translated International Police Check or statutory declaration. 2. A NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) clearance letter issued under the category of volunteer valid for their entire program. 3. A completed vaccination/immunisation card with all serology results containing expiry dates and currency must be maintained by the compliance for their entire program. 4. NSW Undertaking/Declaration form. 5. Completed any additional health forms required (such as NSW Health Code of Conduct, Health Student Undertaking/Declaration and Assessment Tool). 6. Relevant Local Health District specific documentation as requested. Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website. Inherent Requirements (www.uws.edu.au/ir/inherent_requirements/inherent_requirements_for_medicine_courses). Inherent requirements are personal capabilities which are essential for achieving the learning outcomes of the Program or Subject in a way that will preserve the integrity of the University’s teaching, learning and assessment standards and the accreditation requirements for the program. The Disability Education Standard, Section 3.4 (3) states: "In assessing whether an adjustment to the course, unit of the course or program in which the student is enrolled, or proposes to be enrolled, is reasonable, the provider is entitled to maintain the academic requirements of the course or program, and other requirements or components that are inherent in or essential to its nature. Note: In providing for students with disabilities, a provider may continue to ensure the integrity of its courses or programs and assessment requirements and processes, so that those on whom it confers an award can present themselves as having the appropriate knowledge, experience and expertise implicit in the holding of that particular award." Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 x 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 1 hour 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 1 hour 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Year Long S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task Year Long S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Throughout the Year S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Priya Acharya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Priya Acharya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Clinical Science (Medicine) / Doctor of Medicine (MD) (4758) Medical Studies (MEDI)