Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3056 Practicum 2 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Nijat Imin Opens in new window Description In this subject you will build on the skills you developed in Practicum 1 to solve a defined problem. In Practicum 2 you will be expected design and deliver solutions to a complex problem using methodologies and data analysis approaches applicable to your area of professional practice. As this subject has a strong focus on job-ready skills, the reporting of outcomes of the project will include writing and presentation of a professional report and completing a resume of your skills and abilities. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 3055 Equivalent Subjects NATS 3017 Learning Outcomes Design and implement a scientific project within sustainable, culturally aware and defined parameters. 
Review and accurately report on project milestones and outcomes.
Evaluate and present project outcomes, in the context of professional development, to stakeholders. Subject Content Special Requirements Essential equipment Laboratory coats & safety glasses may be required. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Nijat Imin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Nijat Imin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Nijat Imin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)