Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2005 Learning Through Play Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102670 Coordinator Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on analysing the changing nature, contexts and multiple perspectives on children’s play.  Drawing upon classical and contemporary theories, it examines how educators can facilitate young children’s development, authentic learning and wellbeing in prior-to-school contexts as they play.  Students will apply their knowledge of theories of play pedagogy and the principles of The Early Years Learning Framework to consolidate their understandings of the importance of play for children birth to 5 years. Students will further develop skills in observing and analysing children’s play and plan play experiences for young children. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes Explain the changing nature of play, including digital play and contemporary perspectives on play.
Explore diversity in children’s play; its nature, contexts and opportunities, from family perspectives, including community and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander values and expectations about play. 
Investigate the role and value of play in fostering children’s development, learning, and wellbeing in early childhood settings.
Examine classical and modern theories of play.
Analyse children’s play based on observations and documentation.
Apply knowledge of theories of play in designing developmentally and culturally appropriate play experiences, considering context, safety, resources and inclusivity. Subject Content Changing nature and perspectives on children’s play 
Categories of play - physical/outdoor, creative, linguistic/heuristic, emotional and creative, digital 
The value of children’s play 
Children’s play in diverse families and communities
Play and children with additional needs
Theoretical foundations of play
Play curriculum and pedagogy 
The Early Years Learning Framework Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 45 minutes for each quiz 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,600 words (400 words for each reading) 40 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words  40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Childhood Studies, Major (0330) Childhood Studies, Minor (0330) Teacher Education (TEAC)