Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4005 Clinical and Professional Practice (Honours) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401120 Coordinator Kym Hennessy Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce practical principles of professional, ethical and legal issues associated with working as a podiatrist, focusing on the workplace, administrative policies and procedures as required for registration with the state Registration Board. Students then undertake a clinical block in a public sector placement designed to further consolidate podiatric assessment, communication and management skills. The student will be involved in treating pathologies in general health and the high risk patient encompassing all aspects of podiatry School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3028 AND
REHA 3029 AND
REHA 4017 AND
REHA 4007 AND
REHA 3030 AND
REHA 4018 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4021 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7020 - Podiatric Clinical Block for Honours REHA 7023 - Podiatric Professional Practice Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Assumed Knowledge Completion of all core subjects to this semester/year of study is assumed knowledge. Learning Outcomes Understand, apply and document principles of business and administrative management, fair trading, contracts of employment, tax legislation, medical records, health and safety, and medicolegal insurance, specifically as it relates to the practice of podiatry.
Be cognisant of the rights and responsibilities under law and ethical issues associated with the practice of podiatry.
Develop knowledge and skills in specific reporting requirements for the funding of specialist groups, particularly the Department of Veterans Affairs, and relationships with professional associations and bodies to the benefit of the individual and the professional community.
Employ professional communication skills and behaviours in clinical settings.
Competently implement acquired skills in the practice of podiatry in a variety of clinical settings in an independent manner.
Manage caseloads by demonstrating safe skills, efficiencies and competencies necessary in the management of patients with foot pathologies over a short/long term basis.
Apply and appraise skills, knowledge and contextual information in the assessment, diagnosis and management within diverse cohorts and the multi-disciplinary team.
Conduct effective administrative duties (medical records, referral reports and patient instructions) and management tasks (daily running of the department).
Reflect and appraise their clinical and professional experience. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 280 hours of supervised external clinical placement + 5 days attendance at professional seminars S/U Y Individual N  Reflection 2,000 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Total 7 pages  20 N Individual N  Viva Voce 15 minutes  60 N Individual N Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kym Hennessy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)