Academic Handbook Current Edition PROC 1008 Introduction to Materials Engineering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301421 Coordinator Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window Description Modern science and technology is highly dependent on materials whose properties can be controlled to accommodate a wide range of applications. Materials are of the utmost importance for scientists and engineers who need to select appropriate materials for system design and engineering applications. Students will explore the structure and properties of all types of materials, including metals, ceramics, polymers and composites through theories, principles and a range of experiments. Participation in the lab experiments puts theoretical knowledge into practice enhancing each student’s understanding of materials properties, diffusion mechanisms, corrosion, and degradation as well as ways to achieve equilibrium. Graduates who have completed this subject may pursue careers as materials scientists, engineers, researchers, or consultants in industries such as aerospace, automotive, electronics, energy, biomedical, and manufacturing, among others. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Materials Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1008 - Engineering Materials
ENGR 1010 - Engineering Materials (WSTC) Learning Outcomes Describe the basic principles of materials science, including atomic structure, crystallography, diffusion, phase diagrams, and the relationships between material properties and structure.
Analyse phase diagrams to determine the phase composition, transformations and the development of microstructures in a material.
Explain the properties of common materials such as metals, polymers, ceramics, and composites.
Apply the knowledge of materials science to solve practical problems.
Design experiments and projects that incorporate materials science principles.
Implement basic laboratory safety procedures and work collaboratively to maintain a safe and productive environment.
Work effectively in a team to analyse and communicate scientific ideas and achieve project goals, as required by the tasks at hand. Subject Content Structures of materials including metals, ceramics, polymers and composites
Diffusion
Phase diagrams
Mechanical and physical properties of materials
Corrosion and degradation of materials Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 60 minutes (each week) 10 N Individual Y  Practical 500-1000 words equivalent (each lab) 30 N Group/Individual N  Quiz 45 minutes (per quiz) x2 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Bachelor of Engineering Science (3691) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Materials Engineering, Concentration (0280) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)