Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2040 Pharmacology in Nursing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401450 Coordinator Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window Description It is imperative that registered nurses have a solid understanding of pharmacology. This subject introduces principles and core concepts of pharmacology with a distinct emphasis on safe medication administration in nursing. Students will acquire knowledge of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics and systematically develop an understanding of actions and reactions of commonly prescribed drugs to individual people across the lifespan. Electronic medication management systems, patient education and engagement in medication management are addressed in this subject. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 2036 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing, 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry), 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the principles and core concepts of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics
Describe the mechanisms of actions and reactions of commonly prescribed drugs to individual people across the lifespan
Appraise up-to-date evidence, best practice guidelines and recommended evidence for drug therapies
Apply knowledge of state and territory legislation and health service policies for medication prescription, storage, use and administration
Reflect on safe administration of medication Subject Content 1. Principles of pharmacology
a. Pharmacokinetics
b. Pharmacodynamics
c. Variability of drug action and reactions to people across lifespan
d. Individual differences
2. Commonly prescribed drugs
a. Anti-infective and anti-allergic agents (antimicrobials, antivirals, antiparasitics, antifungals, and vaccines; anti-histamines and immunosuppressants)
b. Analgesics (opioids, non-opioids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs)
c. Drugs for gastrointestinal disorders (anti-emetics, laxatives, anti-diarrhoeal agents, vitamin supplements)
d. Drugs for cardiovascular disorders (anti-hypertensives, anti-angina drugs, lipid-lowering agents, anticoagulants, antiplatelets, thrombolytics, drugs for heart failure and antidysrhythmic agents)
e. Drugs for respiratory disorders (drugs for rhinitis, asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
f. Drugs modifying endocrine system (birth control pills, anti-diabetic agents, drugs for thyroid disorders)
g. Anxiolytics and hypnotics
3. Nursing considerations for quality use and administration of medicines
a. Psycho-socio-cultural aspects of pharmacotherapeutics
b. Medication safety and reporting medication incidents including adverse drug reactions, medication errors and near misses
c. Interprofessional and intraprofessional communication related to safe medication management and practices
d. Electronic medication management systems
e. Medication adherence including legislative and organisational requirements for storage, use and administration
f. Patient education and engagement in medication management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes x 1 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1000 words or equivalent  30 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 20 minutes 40 Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 2 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1000 words or equivalent 30 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 20 minutes 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Jacqueline Rojo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Laura Mellish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)