Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7028 Management and Evaluation of Aid Programs Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102578 Coordinator Thierno Diallo Opens in new window Description Evaluation of development aid and relief programs is an instrument for accountability and effective learning in terms of what works, for whom, in what circumstances, and at what cost.   This subject uses critical and practical analyses to provide students with the skills and knowledge required to plan, implement, manage, and evaluate development aid and relief programs. Students are introduced to program planning and management strategies, types of evaluation approaches and their application, and evaluation dissemination utilisation. They gain practical skills to translate evaluation into policy and practice School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Assumed Knowledge Students have undergraduate level knowledge of research design, method and analysis. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and assess approaches to differing evaluation and monitoring frameworks for humanitarian and development projects.
Demonstrate skills in developing theory of change/project logic to guide the establishment of project/program effectiveness.
Demonstrate the knowledge and skills required to develop a project proposal in response to a call for an evaluation.
Critically examine both internal and external forces and realities that may hinder the acceptance of evaluation findings.
Critically evaluate project/program proposals and evaluation reports. Subject Content Introduction
Part I: Log Frame
Result-Based Management and the Logical Framework approach
Ten Steps to a Logical Framework Analysis
1. Situation Analysis
2. Setting objectives
3. Defining a strategy Planning
1. Project effects
2. Project operations
3. Project context
4. Project Design
5. Indicators and means of verification The M&E plan
Summary of Part I
Part II: Theory of Change
1. Introduction to Theory of change
2. Analysing problems and linking results
3. Mapping stakeholders and programmes
4. Interpreting and evaluating a theory of change Part III: Evaluation
1. Evaluation: The Basics
2. Conducting an Evaluation
3. The Evaluation Plan
4. The Evaluation Report
5. Needs Assessment
6. Process Evaluation
7. Impact Evaluation
8. Summary of Part III Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Proposal 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Critical Review 800 words 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Thierno Diallo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies  (1897) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1868) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1867) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1896) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)