Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7030 Health Systems Planning and Evaluation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401364 Coordinator Lei Si Opens in new window Description This subject addresses health services planning and evaluation, as well as health economics. This subject aims to provide students with the necessary knowledge and skills to understand and apply the major concepts involved in health services planning and evaluation. Workforce planning and service capability frameworks are addressed as well as planning capital infrastructure for health services. How to evaluate and implement a health services plan is also described. The second module introduces the student to several economic concepts relevant to healthcare management and demonstrates how they are applied to actual situations in the healthcare industry. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) For students enrolled in 4700 Graduate Diploma in Health Science and 4777 Health Services Management and in 4698 Master of Health Science 2-year and 15-year pathways
PUBH 7031 Health System and Policy Equivalent Subjects PUBH 7012 Health Economics and Comparative Health Systems Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. NOTE: Students in the 1 year pathway will need to complete a rule waiver form to enrol in this unit. Assumed Knowledge Competent use of Microsoft Excel, and high school mathematics (arithmetic, formulas and algebra, reading graphs). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Relate key economic and health service planning principles to the current health system climate
Determine best practice for planning and implementing change in the health service industry
Construct innovative solutions to health systems planning to address projected challenges in the health service industry.
Engage effectively as a member of a health service management team to design and implement a health service initiative Subject Content 1. Decision-making in health services management
2. Comparing health systems
3. Principles of economic evaluation
4. Measuring and valuing effects
5. Workforce planning and service capability
6. Planning capital infrastructure for health services
7. Rural health planning
8. Planning for populations
9. Service planning models of care
10.Healthcare forecasting, whole of nation and beyond-hospital-walls planning
11. Stakeholder consultation and engagement within the health services planning environment
12. Demand and supply of services Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 25 N Group N  Professional Task 1,500 words 30 N Group N  Professional Task 2,000 words 45 N Group/Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Lei Si Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Luke Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Luke Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management (4777) Health Science Modelling and Research, Testamur Major (T141) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Public Health (PUBH)