Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 7020 Superannuation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200867 Coordinator Michelle Cull Opens in new window Description This subject provides an understanding of the key issues, decisions and frameworks that affect financial planning for retirement. The subject focuses on superannuation and effective financing of retirement. It includes key concepts in prudential supervision of Australian superannuation, exploration of types of funds relevant to retirement, appreciating trends in retirement financing policies and their effects on providing advice,  understanding the social security and age care systems' effect on retirement planning strategies; and correctly computing  tax liabilities on superannuation, pensions, and estate management. This subject is the principal one for learning about self- managed superannuation funds, for whom they are suitable and for whom they are not. School Business Discipline Investment and Securities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2671/2770 Master of Commerce (Financial Planning) or 2690 Graduate Certificate in Commerce (Financial Planning). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate key concepts in prudential supervision of Australian superannuation;
Evaluate types of funds relevant to retirement;
Evaluate the trends in retirement financing policies and their effects on providing advice;
Apply to practical retirement decisions a sufficient understanding of the social security and age care systems;
Apply the correctly assessed tax to superannuation, pension, fund administration and similar calculations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation Part 1: 500-1,000 words and Part 2: 3-5 minutes  30 N Group/Individual Y  Essay 400-800 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Michelle Cull Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Graduate Diploma in Financial Planning (2794) Master of Financial Planning (2793)