Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3026 Health Promotion Planning and Implementation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401391 Coordinator Joyce Siette Ng Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the knowledge gained in Health Promotion: Theory and Approaches. It is concerned with developing knowledge and skills related to undertaking needs analysis at community and population levels. It focuses on planning and implementing interventions aligned with core values and principles necessary for ethical health promotion. The need for evaluation throughout this process is emphasised. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 1010 Incompatible Subjects PUBH 3012 - Health Promotion Practice 1 PUBH 3013 - Health Promotion Practice 2 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse data from a range of appropriate sources to effectively determine community health needs;
Apply a range of quantitative, qualitative and mixed-method techniques to gather information on community health needs and to evaluate health promotion projects;
Plan appropriate evaluation of health promotion interventions;
Plan, implement and manage feasible, innovative, evidence-based strategies targeting community health needs. Subject Content 1. Theoretical basis of needs analysis and approaches in health promotion
2. Knowledge of sources of information and practice of techniques for gathering information (sourcing data, community mapping, focus groups, interviews, community meetings)
3. Approaches to collating, analysing and presenting information based on health needs
4. Approaches to planning health promotion projects, including developing logic models and considering core values in health promotion (participation, capacity building, social justice, diversity)
5. Methods of ensuring adequate management of the implementation of health promotion projects (documentation, record keeping, utilising networks and partnerships)
6. Qualitative, quantitative and mixed-method techniques for measuring central aspects of health promotion projects (process, outputs, outcomes, impact) and multi-level evaluation (measuring community and organizational capacity, social capital) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Poster 1,000 words and 5 minutes presentation 35 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 35 N Individual N  Quiz 2 x 20 Multiple Choice Questions 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Joyce Siette Ng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Freya Macmillan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Joyce Siette Ng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Health Promotion Studies, Major (0298) Health Promotion, Major (0052) Health Promotion, Minor (0052) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Public Health (PUBH)