Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3023 Chinese 304: Chinese Classical Literature Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100065 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to Chinese classical literature in the Chinese language. It includes a brief overview of Chinese classical literature and exposes students to the prose, poetry, drama and fiction genres of Chinese classical works from the Han dynasty to the Qing dynasty. Through selected readings, students will gain some knowledge of the stylistic and linguistic features of classical prose and develop skills in reading classical Chinese. Students will also develop an understanding of the Chinese literary tradition and an appreciation of the continuing relevance of classical Chinese in contemporary China. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes Demonstrate a basic knowledge of the development of Chinese classical literature
Show an understanding of the syntax and particles of classical Chinese and its linguistic and stylistic features
Convey the meaning of a classical Chinese text in modern Chinese
Demonstrate an appreciation of the selected works in their social and historical context
Show an understanding of the Chinese literary tradition and the development of the Chinese language
Demonstrate high level literary and critical thinking skills Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10-15 minutes including discussion 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1500-2000 words 40 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)