Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7071 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200796 Coordinator Laurel Jackson Opens in new window Description Negotiation has become a strategic necessity for many firms wishing to survive and grow in today's increasingly competitive globalised economy. Negotiation and conflict resolution errors can be costly to direct and indirect stakeholders. As such, Negotiation and Conflict Resolution Management will provide theoretical frameworks for students to develop the practical skills needed to manage the negotiation and conflict resolution needs of any organisation. Through the use of role play and simulations, students will be required to analyse corporate data and apply strategies to create a negotiated agreement.  It examines negotiation in different contexts including multiparty negotiations.  Emphasis is also placed on causes of conflict and how to identify potential indicators, leading to an analysis of the different conflict modes and patterns. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 8695 - Negotiation for Managers LGYA 8696 - Conflict Resolution Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 5502 Graduate Certificate in Business Administration, 2755 Master of Business Administration, 2757 Graduate Certificate in Business Administration, 2762 Executive Master of Business Administration. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply negotiation and conflict resolution theories, including from an employment relations perspective;
Analyse and evaluate how local and international contexts inform negotiation and conflict resolution strategies;
Evaluate and apply conflict resolution strategies in the negotiation process;
Evaluate the role of ethics in the negotiation and conflict resolution process and outcomes;
Identify and assess the risks and potential outcomes of negotiated decisions;
Analyse corporate data and apply negotiation and conflict resolution strategies to create a negotiated agreement. Subject Content Negotiation and conflict resolution theory and strategy
Perception and communication
Fundamentals of Industrial Relations
Power and ethics
Relationships
Constituents
Coalitions and teams
Diversity management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflective journal Individual - Engage in and critically reflect on process and outcomes of minor negotiation exercises Maximum 1,000 words  35 N Individual   Written Essay Group - Case Analysis – Analyse negotiations using theoretical frames Maximum 1,500 words 30 N Group   Practical/ engaged exercise/ role play - Major Negotiation Exercise- Individual plan and group negotiation 500 word plan  and 30 minute role play 35 N Both (Individual & Group) Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)