Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 7003 Urban Research Report Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101637 Coordinator Oznur Sahin Opens in new window Description This capstone subject requires students to write a 5,000 word comprehensive research report on a local or international urban planning issue. Students will select a research topic of individual interest, and work to assemble a range of evidence to address the research question. This facilitates an opportunity for students to apply their skills and knowledge acquired in the Master's program, through a high level of work and quality engagement in an authentic and professional context. School Social Sciences Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1299 - Urban Management Placement Thesis Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Formulate a successful research proposal for independent research
Demonstrate knowledge and critical analysis skills in the production of a literature review
Identify an appropriate research method to address the particular research question, and assemble a range of evidence to address it.
Apply their skills and knowledge in a sustained program of research writing
Produce a clear report of the outcomes of the research project, based on application of the skills and knowledge acquired Subject Content Write a Research Proposal that frames a research question and indicates an appropriate research method by which to address it.
Undertake an independent research project under the supervision of an academic supervisor. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 5000 words 80 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Nicky Morrison Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Oznur Sahin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Environmental Studies (ENVL) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873)