Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2015 Evidence and Crime Scene Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300935 Coordinator Robert Ebeyan Opens in new window Description Evidence and Crime Scene Management is a subject designed to provide students with an understanding and knowledge of critical principles associated with the management of evidence and sites considered as crime scenes. The subject is particularly designed for students wishing to enter professional domains involving; policing, nursing, animal welfare, workplace investigators, health inspectors, WHS officers, fire investigation, council and park rangers, social welfare, environmental protection, fraud and insurance investigation and others where the collection of evidence is a component of professional practice within the discipline. The subject covers topics such as; recognition of various evidence, the recording and documentation of evidence, crime scene or site photography, managing scenes, maintaining evidence integrity, sexual assault evidence, the reporting and presentation of evidence in court and others. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 2014 - Evidence and Crime Scene Management Incompatible Subjects NATS 2010 - Crime Scene Investigation Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points. Students enrolled in 3589 Bachelor of Science (Forensic Science) or in MT3022 Forensic Science are not eligible to take this subject as an elective. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify various types of evidence and explain the relevance of each evidence type to forensic investigations.
Differentiate identification and elimination evidence.
Explain the methods for preservation, documentation and collection of evidence that are utilised by crime scene investigators.
Describe how evidence is handled to ensure that evidence integrity and continuity are maintained from the scene to presentation in court.
Understand the impact of individual photographic principles on image quality and effectively document a crime scene by implementing this knowledge.
Carry out specific techniques in order to enhance latent evidence.
Demonstrate a range of communication skills necessary for preparing and presenting evidence in a court environment.
Describe the value of ethical conduct in relation to providing evidence to a legal landscape (criminal and civil). Subject Content 1. What is forensic evidence?
2. Understanding identification and elimination evidence.
3. Defining and establishing a crime scene or accident site.
4. Management of evidence integrity and continuity.
5. Maintaining the integrity of crime scenes and minimising contamination.
6. Methods of preserving, documenting and collecting physical evidence.
7. Photographing crime scenes and other sites.
8. Photographic interpretation and evidence (including the detection of forgeries).
9. Physical evidence found at crime scenes (footwear impressions, tyre impressions, fingerprinting, tool marks etc.).
10. Sexual assault evidence. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Practical 1,000 Words 10 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Case Study 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Practical 15 hours (5 x 3hrs over 3 days) S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Robert Ebeyan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)