Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7033 Customer Experience Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201022 Coordinator Lynne Freeman Opens in new window Description Customer experiences occur when there is interaction between a company and their customers for the duration of their relationship.  It comprises the customer journey, the consumer-brand 'touchpoints' and the environment in which these experiences happen. Increasing digitisation of the organisation-customer interface has resulted in a shift of buyer expectations where it is easier to compare market offerings and where communication is no longer a one way interaction.  This subject considers the complexity of the technology driven relationship where customers become co-creators of their own personalized experiences and how companies can be part of this. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MKTG 7004 - Buyer Behaviour Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program or 3749 - Master of Science. Assumed Knowledge An understanding of marketing theory and relevant principles is assumed. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the complex interactions between a company, their partners and customers which influence the quality of all customer experiences and the customer journey
Apply the process of dividing people into social networks based upon criteria such as communication, demographics, product usage, digital use and psychographic attributes and behaviours
Formulate a virtual customer experience via the application of digital media and networks
Evaluate customer-centric metrics for better decision making
Reflect on the issues around maintaining customer privacy in the digital age Subject Content 1. Investigating customer experience ecosystems
2. Social segmentation
3. The virtual customer experience
4. How human emotions drive positive customer experiences in real-time
5. Customer Insights
6. Managing customer privacy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,500 words 45 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3,500 word equivalency 30 N Group Y  Quiz 90 minutes 25 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Lynne Freeman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Lynne Freeman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Marketing (exit only) (2818) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Marketing, Major (0137) Master of Marketing (2817) Master of Science (3749) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)