Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4017 Design Thinking for Competitive Advantage Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301302 Coordinator Sasha Alexander Opens in new window Description Design Thinking has become widely adopted as a novel problem solving mechanism and asset to market growth, resource utilisation, and competitiveness. This approach incorporates human-centric attributes and iterative processes which are features of professional designers co-creating with stakeholders. In this unit, students focus on empathic viewpoints associated with understanding people, markets and the environment. They explore future possibilities for communities using decision-making processes, informed by global challenges as represented through the UNSDGs. This new global societal driver for equitable living standards, economic prosperity, and sustainable societies is explored through online study involving a series of webinars, digital interactions, and conclude with a student prototype presentation. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate opportunities for competitive advantage using Design Thinking methodology and employing empathetic viewpoints and visualisation techniques.
Synthesise knowledge into a human-centred approach that engages with an aspect of the UNSDGs and produces a differentiated outcome
Convince a range of stakeholders in multi-disciplinary contexts of the use of Design Thinking for competitive opportunities and outcomes Subject Content 1. Design Thinking overview and as a strategic competitiveness method
2. Design Thinking as an organisational influencer
3. Empathic viewpoints that accelerate new product development
4. Framing a UNSDG-oriented project brief for new product development
5. Strategic decision-making around UNSDG outcome implementation and commercialisation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words; and contextual images 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,000 words; and visualisation  30 N Individual Y  Report 1,200 words 
(report) 
and 
Prototype and 3 minutes (presentation) 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sasha Alexander Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Design Management and Entrepreneurship, Major (0081) Design Practice, Major (0225) Design Practice, Minor (0225) Industrial Manufacturing, Minor (0085) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)