Academic Handbook Current Edition GEDU 1002 Core Foundations and Key Ideas (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window Description This subject will support students across a range of Diplomas in Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences to gain foundational knowledge and capacities relevant to their future studies. The subject will enable students to begin actively engaging with the foundation theories and contemporary issues and controversies from a selected discipline area for future professional application. Students will learn about the discipline and professional pathways that are specific to their diploma area, and be introduced to how these might intersect with other disciplines in a changing tertiary education and societal context. Students will also enhance and further demonstrate foundational university research and communication skills. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Learning Skills Programs Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the context of the field you are entering and its professional application. 
Demonstrate understanding of the underpinning concepts and some relevant inter-disciplinary perspectives in your chosen field. 
Identify contemporary issues or controversies relevant to your chosen field and justify a position.
Demonstrate proficiency in basic university research and communication skills. Subject Content Exploring the field of study and professional contexts;
Disciplinary backgrounds, lenses and contexts;  
Introducing key concepts, processes, and theories relevant to the field of study;  
Contemporary issues, controversies, ethics relevant to the field of study and profession;
Advanced study skills: Introducing critical analytical thinking, emotional intelligence, collaborative learning, and creativity
The importance of personal integrity within university and professional fields;
Critical application of digital technology and multimedia;
Researching and communicating effectively from perspective of the chosen discipline. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview 5 minutes and 100 word description 10 N Individual N  Log/Workbook 250 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Critical Review 7 - 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn Block 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Science (7196) General Education Programs (GEDU)