Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1021 Learning, Teaching and Technologies Legacy Code 102116 Coordinator Shirley Gilbert Opens in new window Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe a range of environments and activities which facilitate learning through recognition of the diverse nature of learners.
Explain the roles and responsibilities of teachers in primary schools.
Develop, implement, justify and document teaching experiences relating to the NSW Syllabus documents and the needs of individual children in their care.
Explain the impact of technologies on teaching and learning.
Utilise technologies for their personal productivity and developing professional practice.
Apply the principles and practices of classroom pedagogy based on an understanding of how children learn and are motivated.
Evaluate their role in the teaching profession and the need to continually improve their professional knowledge and practice. Subject Content 1. Positive environments for learning and supporting learners - school, home and community
2. Developing a personal understanding of teaching as a profession. Personal philosophy of teaching and learning
3. Teacher as a life-long learner - including reflection in teaching and learning, portfolios, schools as learning communities
4. Introduction to curriculum and the structure of syllabus documents;
5. Planning, implementing and assessing in the teaching and learning cycle
6. Development and use of resources
7. Teaching and learning strategies including roles and uses of information and communication technologies
8. Managing classrooms and learners in classrooms Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must have: Working with Children Check and Completion of Child Protection Training. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay  2,000 words 
 50 N Individual   Report and Artefact 2,000 words
 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)