Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7017 Food Product Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301183 Coordinator Christine Hutchison Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to theories and practices underpinning new product development, including idea generation, market research and product lifecycles. Students will apply emerging technologies, new ingredients and other innovative concepts relating to food preservation and food evaluation to research and develop new food products. Students will work on formulation design, assessment of ingredient and additive functions, effects of processing, optimization of quality and acceptability of foods.  They will assess product packaging and storage stability, along with developing a food safety plan. They will also produce a final product specification and labelling requirements compliant with current food regulations. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) None Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate and apply key theoretical and practical principles and techniques underpinning a food product development process.
Design, conduct and analyse consumer surveys.
Apply experimental design techniques in product design, optimisation and product formulation.
Formulate new food products; manipulate food ingredients and additives to ensure effective development of product, addressing the product design brief and consumer marketing requirements.
Analyse the product for physical, chemical, microbiological and sensory attributes.
Apply the skills of critical analysis in the evaluation of scientific and technical data.
Develop a food safety plan for the new product and ensure it complies with current food regulations.
Communicate the results of the development process using a range of modes and formats, including reports and Power Point presentations. Subject Content 1. Purpose of new product development, product life cycles, triggers for new products.
2. Theories and techniques applied in new product development, such as Quality Function.
3. Deployment, the Stage-Gate? process, and Experimental design in product development.
4. New product ideation, development of concept statements or product design briefs, market and consumer requirements, new product requirements, limitations.
5. Consumer survey design and analysis.
6. Ingredient selection: carbohydrates, proteins, fats, additives.
7. Food formulation design and ingredient interactions.
8. Product performance evaluation - scale up and production issues.
9. Shelf life determination.
10. Food regulation requirements for new products.
11. Practical work directed at creating a new food product, including consumer survey, formulation, scale-up, food safety and packaging requirements, chemical, microbiological and sensory assessment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1500 words 25 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 5,000 words 30 N Group N  Log/Workbook Weekly Log 15 N Individual N  Quiz 2 x 45 minutes 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Christine Hutchison Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)