Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2041 Working in Professions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200914 Coordinator Krishan Prasad Opens in new window Description Working in Professions focuses on developing career understandings and appreciating the personal attributes required for employability in the 'real world' of accounting, banking, economics, finance and property. This is a professional subject in the Bachelor of Business, but is also open to participants with an interest in examining and developing their knowledge of employability in these career areas. The subject involves examination of the evolving nature of work in a dynamic globalised context; applied labour market and industry structure analysis; and an exploration of employability attributes, capacities and opportunities across a range of career paths. Successful completion of the subject allows participants to gauge employer expectations, and to identify and reflect on career opportunities in their chosen fields. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2030 - Managing and Developing Careers BUSM 2040 - The Service Enterprise Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of Business subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply labour market analysis to identify a range of career opportunities in accounting, banking, economics, finance and property.
Explain how career prospects in business will evolve over time.
Identify employee skills and attributes relevant to their chosen career.
Identify the role of professional bodies for the modern business professional.
Explain the role of ethics in the modern business world.
Research and reflect on opportunities for individual employability. Subject Content The meaning of work and the global labour environment.
Communication and the workforce in relation to small, medium and large enterprises.
Employability skills and attributes required by business professionals.
The professions:
	
Diversity of the accounting profession
The finance professional
Property profession
Financial advice profession
Diversity and change in economics professions


Use of technology in the professions.
Legislative requirements and the role of professional bodies.
Professional ethics in business.
Organising work life balance.
Evaluating and assessing career options. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Part 1: Summary 1,200 words (20%). Part 2: Presentation 15 minutes (10%) 30 N Group Y  Portfolio 2,000 words equivalency 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Krishan Prasad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Business Analytics, Testamur Major (T130) Business and Management (BUSM) Economics, Testamur Major (T039) Personal Innovation, Minor (0284) Property, Testamur Major (T047)