Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2029 Photo Journalism Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100953 Coordinator Ming Diao Opens in new window Description Students studying this subject examine the function of photojournalism in the process of newsgathering and production and examine the relationship between images and text and their communicative potential. The subject involves a variety of approaches to photojournalism using monochrome and colour photography and location lighting for social documentary for ultimate use in a range of published forms. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Photography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0636 - Photo Journalism Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Students must have a sound understanding of photography principles, and experience in photography processes. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the communicative potential of the discrete photographic image
Explain the legal and ethical issues involved in the use of images of people and property
Demonstrate in folio format visual narrative forms as a sequence or series of images in a visual essay
Recognize and isolate the necessary key visual elements of a narrative to construct a photo that communicates clearly
Prepare photographic images in the context of photojournalism towards publication formatted as both screen and print folios
Explain the newsroom structure and processes for negotiation with writers
Apply proficiency in monochrome and colour photography, contemporary print and printing systems, basic studio, portable as well as available lighting and digital capture
Adequately assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content The construction of meaning through single and sequential images.
The role of the image in telling the story, what makes a good news or feature picture.
The use of the photographic image - subjectivity of the photographer and editor.
Skills in analysis, composition and editing of photographic imagery.
Understanding the role of the photojournalist within an editorial team.
Understanding concepts of constructing and following a brief.
Legal issues (defamation, copyright, privacy) and ethical issues associated with documentary photographic imagery.
The function of research in story development.
The photojournalist as reporter, the feature & investigative story.
The DSLR camera lighting, monochrome and colour photography.
Exposure for and natural and artificial lighting conditions.
Digital capture to publication, file set up for use in print and on-line/screen publication. File sizes and compression. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 Questions 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 20 Images + Synopsis 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 20 Images + Synopsis 30 N Individual Y  Reflection Equivalent 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Journalism, Major (0069) Journalism, Minor (0069) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)