Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3048 Immersive Screen Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102832 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description New technology developments have facilitated the integration and design of immersive technologies to more fully engage audiences with narratives and brands.  In this subject, students will study user engagement and visual effects theory and analyse the application of these theories and business models on innovative commercial and creative industries case studies. Students will be introduced to using immersive cross platform technologies and 360 filming. Students will develop a scoping and design template for their own project concept. The project proposal will outline the rationale, using visual design elements and compositing requirements, to build a multi-layered digital experience for a venue, project or brand. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Computer Graphics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse and evaluate a range of immersive technologies and their uses in business and creative industries
Explain the rationale for, and the range of, business models evolving in the development of trans media content
Analyse current user experience and visual design theories applied to case studies
Interpret and apply pre-production strategies to the conceptualisation and development of techniques to develop an immersive project
Apply creative scoping and project management to the development of audio and video production projects
Create and publish media content for online platforms Subject Content 1.  Production design and strategies for audience engagement 2.  Immersive Technology tools and formats (immersive, 360, animated, online interactive, transmedia) 3.  Case studies of commercial and innovative project design 4.  Practice-base workshop in 360 filming and basic compositing 5.  Reflecting on practice and publishing to a personal web portfolio Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 3 minutes 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1000 words 40 N Group N  Summary 400 words and quizzes 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 500 words 10 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)