Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 2004 Animal Reproduction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300835 Coordinator Sebastian Holmes Opens in new window Description Reproduction is the origin of life. The aim of this subject is to provide students with a sound understanding of reproduction of both domestic and non domestic animals so that they can design and manage a breeding program for a species of choice. Topics will include anatomy and physiology of male and female reproductive tracts; hormonal control of reproduction; fertilisation, pregnancy, parturition and lactation and advanced reproductive technologies. These topics will be explored in a range of species across different taxonomic groups. School Science Discipline Animal Husbandry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 1012 Cell Biology Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Assumed Knowledge Some knowledge of biology, including basic animal anatomy, introductory animal physiology and  some understanding of reproductive behaviour. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe a range of reproductive strategies used by domesticated animals and wildlife species
Examine reproductive organs systems to determine advanced reproductive technologies to be applied to breeding systems
Compare and contrast the principles of manipulating breeding systems using biological and environmental stimuli
Analyse biological tissue in the laboratory to determine appearance of normal tissue
Report research findings using appropriate academic writing and public speaking Subject Content 1. Anatomy of male and female reproductive tracts
2. Endocrinology of reproductive cycles
3. Oogenesis, fertilisation
4. Parturition and lactation
5. Pregnancy loss
6. Effect of environment on reproduction
7. Manipulation of reproductive cycles
8. Captive breeding programs
9. Artificial breeding techniques including semen collection and evaluation, embryo transfer and other assisted reproductive techniques
10. Major reproductive diseases and their control
11. Comparative structure and function of male and female reproductive systems, and learn how to manipulate endocrine control of reproductive cycles. Students will work with a range of techniques, including new and emerging technologies, for modifying reproductive performance.
12. Factors affecting reproduction and common causes of reproductive failure will also be explored. Research and write professional standard academic reports. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 500-1000 words 10 N Individual N  Presentation 3 minutes 15 N Individual N  Report 1500-2000 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 1500-3000 words 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Holmes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185)