Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7109 Environmental Management: A Business Perspective Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201081 Coordinator Muhammad Salman Asif Opens in new window Description In this project oriented unit, students apply environmental management concepts within a business context. Students explore a range of practices and strategies to a sustainable business operation, learning why environmental sustainability is the world's most challenging and complex issue.  As part of group work projects, students investigate methods and tools to analyse environmental management practices, determine environmental risks, and develop associated mitigation strategies. Additionally environmental management systems and relevant international standards are used to evaluate business environmental performance in real-world cases and emerging environmental management initiatives, such as the circular economy, natural capital accounting, and environmental and social profit and loss. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of core competencies of a business operation and literature review skills is desirable. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate current environmental challenges impacting business operations along with the methodologies and tools that may be effective in addressing these challenges to provide business competitive advantage.
Design appropriate environmental management, risk management and mitigation strategies for enterprises that highlight effective methods to minimise environmental impacts.
Apply systems & strategic thinking in addressing enterprise financial profit and loss scenarios and integrating the concept of the circular economy.
Collaborate with others on a real work project justifying analyses and recommendations.
Present a compelling business case in a range of formats to diverse audiences that demonstrates critical thinking, scholarship and integrity. Subject Content 1. Overview and the current situation in environmental management
2. Challenges and opportunities of environmental management (UN sustainable development goals 2030)
3. Environmental Strategies, Theories, and Practices
4. Environmental management tools
5. Business environmental accounting
6. Green supply chain management
7. Life cycle assessment and carbon footprint labelling
8. Circular economy
9. Moving forward: natural capital accounting, environmental and social profit & loss, and ESG Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 4,500 words 30 N Group Y  Presentation 30 minutes per group 20 N Group Y  Report 1,500 words 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Muhammad Salman Asif Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Sustainable Business, Major (0249)