Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3023 Systems and Network Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300166 Coordinator Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window Description With the advent of the era of Internet of Things, the Internet has become a huge infrastructure in which various kinds of systems are running to deliver a plethora of network services. To ensure the efficient utilization of network resources (e.g., bandwidth) and the convenient access to network services, systems and networks must be managed in a proper way. Facing this demand, this subject covers the standards, protocols and skills pertinent to the management of systems and networks. Moreover, this subject introduces Software Defined Networking (SDN), a new paradigm for conducting network management with programmability, flexibility and scalability. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Networks and Communications Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 3007 OR
COMP 3025 Assumed Knowledge Students should be familiar with the fundamentals of computer networking and data communications. In particular, they should have a good understanding of the TCP/IP protocol suite, the OSI model, and current networking and internetworking technologies. Learning Outcomes Describe the basic components involved in network and system management.
Apply the network management architecture to an existing network.
Interpret data represented by the languages of ASN.1 or SMI.
Describe how an MIB is organised.
Explain how SNMPv1, SNMPv2 and SNMPv3 work, and apply them to manage a network.
Explain how RMON1 and RMON2 work, apply them to manage a network.
Configure Web servers, Email servers, DNS servers and DHCP servers.
Apply Software Defined Networking in campus networks and data centre networks. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 0.5 hour per week 20 N Individual N  Report 1.5 hours per week 20 N Individual N  Report 5-10 pages 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Computer Science (COMP) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119)