Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7051 Elder Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201066 Coordinator Richard Mccullagh Opens in new window Description Whilst Elder Law has been an acknowledged speciality for many years in countries such as Canada and the United States of America, it is only in the last two decades that it has gained recognition in Australia. This subject examines law, theories and issues relevant to an ageing community. The legal issues are examined in a broad social, cultural and ethical context. Issues of legal capacity relevant not only to the law of contracts but also to delegated decision making, medical treatment and end of life decisions are considered. Similarly, the law relating to areas of special importance to the elder community such as, pensions, retirement villages, wills and estate planning and equitable remedies for financial elder abuse are also discussed. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 2826 Juris Doctor must have successfully completed subjects LAWS 7072 and LAWS 7047 and students enrolled in 2824 M Laws must have successfully completed LAWS 7078 before enrolling in this subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2826 Juris Doctor or 2824 Master of Law. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate the legal, policy, moral and practical issues concerning Substitute Decision Making for older persons.
Analyse the legal, policy, moral and practical issues related to accommodation, retirement finances, and estate planning for older persons, considering equitable remedies for financial elder abuse.
Provide advice in relation to elderly community interests and disputes.
Construct clear and logical arguments in responses addressing legal issues affecting older persons.
Assess ethical issues arising in Elder law and the lawyer’s role in promoting justice and service to the community. Subject Content Policymaking and the older person: social and philosophical factors
Sources of law affecting older persons
Financial decision-making agents
Health decision-making agencies
Fiduciary duties  
Unconscionable conduct, undue influence and proprietary estoppel 
Equitable remedies for financial elder abuse, including elder abuse of Indigenous people
Resulting trusts and constructive trusts
Inter vivos statutory property adjustment orders
Deceased estate statutory property adjustment orders
Staying home: Income support payments and subsidised care costs
Retirement villages and manufactured home parks
Granny flat arrangements
Residential aged care facilities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 minutes per quiz 10 N Individual N  Essay 2,500 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 20 minutes 40 N Individual N  Participation Ongoing 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Richard McCullagh, Australian Elder Law: Accommodation, Agency and Remedies in Australia (Thomson Reuters, 2018) Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Richard Mccullagh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)