Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3020 Food Safety Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300859 Coordinator Malik Hussain Opens in new window Description Food safety is rapidly evolving with the emergence of new foodborne diseases, changing disease patterns, evolving approaches to risk analysis and an emerging requirement that food producers, processors, handlers and consumers take shared responsibility for food safety.    This subject aims to equip students with the necessary skills to identify, evaluate and control foodborne hazards in order to protect the safety and quality of the food supply and reduce associated risks to human health.      Content includes the key elements of food safety and regulation, food contamination, food spoilage agents, foodborne hazards, principles of good hygienic practice and preservation in food production, preparation and distribution. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 3021 - Food Safety Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify food safety hazards and associated risk reduction protocols to ensure safe food production.
Explain the major principles of preservation and the effectiveness of different technologies in controlling foodborne hazards.
Apply a sound knowledge of Australian Food Standards to the regulation of food safety and food premises inspection.
Monitor and evaluate cleaning and sanitation protocols in commercial food premises.
Apply HACCP principles to the identification, evaluation, control and monitoring of hazards in food.
Plan appropriate foodborne disease surveillance and outbreak investigation procedures. Subject Content Microbial contamination of food
Food spoilage
The effects of food characteristics on spoilage patterns
Foodborne hazards
Principles and methods of preservation
The Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) approach to Food Safety
Good Hygienic Practice
Cleaning, sanitizing and controlling pests in food operations
Food legislation and administration in Australia
Food safety inspection and auditing
Contaminant monitoring
Food labelling, traceability and food recalls
Risk assessment and analysis
Foodborne disease surveillance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2,000 words 35 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 35 N Individual N  Quiz 3 x 30 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Malik Hussain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Minor (0208) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)