Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 6003 Computer Vision Credit Points 10 Coordinator Manas Patra Opens in new window Description Computer vision uses artificial intelligence to train computers to interpret and understand visual images. Through the information that is derived, computer systems can make decisions and take actions. The amount of visual information today from digital devices and cameras along with improved technology has enabled considerable advances in automated image interpretation. In this subject students learn the state-of-the-art technologies of image processing and computer vision through practical activities. Computer vision is used, and has the potential to be used, in a range of industries, in novel ways. This presents a unique opportunity to students completing this subject. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Assumed Knowledge Students should have general background in programming, computing, and/or statistics. Learning Outcomes Apply knowledge, theories and methods in image processing and computer vision.
Articulate the kinds of problems found in image processing and computer vision.
Evaluate existing computer vision systems.
Demonstrate effective communication and collaboration skills to develop a functional computer vision system.
Implement designs to develop practical and innovative image processing and computer vision applications or systems using various deep learning based technologies.
Work professionally and responsibly in solving problems in image processing and computer vision. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 hours  (per task) 30 N Individual N  Quiz 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Group/Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 10 N Group/Individual Y Prescribed Texts Szeliski, R. (2022). Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications. Springer. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Manas Patra Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Manas Patra Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765)