Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7019 Practice of Obstetric and Gynecological (O&G) Sonography 1 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Catherine Robinson Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the practice of obstetric and gynecological (O&G) sonography. Students will learn how to acquire and optimise transabdominal ultrasound images and make key measurements. They will learn to draw conclusions about fetal and maternal anatomy and function based on images and measurements. In addition, students will develop their professional and ethical skills by learning how to plan and implement O&G ultrasounds in a safe and ethical manner. The skills and knowledge learnt in this subject, which includes work-integrated learning, provide foundational clinical and professional skills in O&G sonography. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) RADI 5001 - Physics for Diagnostic Ultrasound Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy, physiology and mathematics Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Integrate transducer manipulation and machine optimisation to acquire standardised transabdominal O&G ultrasound images
2. Implement anatomical and physiological measurement techniques to provide clinical information about the female pelvis
3. Perform biometric measurements in obstetric examinations to aid in determining viability and gestational age
4. Critique performed O&G measurements against established guidelines for ensuring quality control
5. Plan and implement ultrasound examinations to ensure best patient outcomes
6. Apply legal, ethical and safe practice to meet established professional standards
7. Document clinical experiences and activities to form reflective skills Subject Content Module 1: Sonographic practice 1
1. Anatomical planes and sonographic terminology
2. Ultrasound machine operation and knobology
3. Image acquisition and optimisation Module 2: Professional & Ethical practice 1
1. Planning and implementing an ultrasound examination
2. Patient-centred care and communication
3. Ergonomics for sonographers Module 3: Speciality knowledge and imaging skills 1
1. The female reproductive system and menstrual cycle
2. Assessment of the uterus and endometrium
3. Early human embryology
4. Foundations of first trimester sonography
5. Determining viability and location in early pregnancy
6. Fetal biometric measurements Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the O&G ultrasonography course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in states other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be completed if, and when required) Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 15 ultrasound images and a 500-word reflective critique 25 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 200 studies with quality and reflective learning activities S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Catherine Robinson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Obstetric and Gynecological Sonography (4802) Radiography (RADI)