Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2022 Human Resource Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200859 Coordinator Jayne Bye Opens in new window Description Human Resource Development' (HRD) looks at how the development of people and their skills is essential to the 21st century workplace. By examining the key processes of employee learning, development and career management, participants will understand HRD's impacts on workers' employability and careers, organisational effectiveness and economic sustainability. The subject introduces concepts of workplace learning and engages participants in case study discussion and research into current HRD trends in Australian and international workplaces. The goal of Human Resource Development is to support participants to ask questions about current practice and to encourage critical understanding of the field. School Business Discipline Human Resource Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 1023 Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2013 - Employee Training and Development BUSM 2012 - Employee Training and Development Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the goals, processes and impacts of HRD from a range of stakeholder perspectives.
Apply knowledge of training and development planning processes in case study analysis.
Analyse the ethical implications of the HRD function in the workplace.
Evaluate different models/theories of career management.
Communicate ideas in written and visual formats. Subject Content 1. Key processes and concepts in HRD: training/learning; development and career management.
2. Role of the HRD professional ? workforce planning, succession planning, and building organisational capability.
3. Stakeholder perspectives on HRD.
4. Planning processes for learning and development ? needs analysis, program design and implementation, evaluation and HRD metrics.
5. Current issues and challenges for HRD in the Australian context.
6. Organisational strategies for developing employees ? talent management, coaching and mentoring.
7. Changing understandings of Careers in the 21st Century.
8. Current issues in career management.
9. Equity and diversity issues in HRD.
10. Ethical HRD. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 800 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 1,300 words 35 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Jayne Bye Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Khalil Al Jerjawi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jayne Bye Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Jayne Bye Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Human Resource Management, Testamur Major (T041)