Academic Handbook Current Edition CEDS 7001 Education Policy, Practice and Global Knowledge Co-construction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102160 Coordinator Michael Singh Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject explores the relationship between education and knowledge through reference to questions about the links between education policy practices and global knowledge production. The conceptual framework which provides the focus for this subject explores the dynamic, cyclical relations between the following: conditions of possibility for linking education policy practices and global knowledge production; contexts of negotiation/distance that affect this relationship; the modes of reception and rejection of the impact of linking of the two, and the mechanisms of connection that make this possible.  These core concepts provide a focus for exploring questions about the relationship between ‘education policy practices’ and ‘global knowledge production’ in students’ everyday work-life. School Education Discipline Education Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically review concepts that explain what students know and do through their everyday professional practice that links ‘education policy practices’ and ‘global knowledge production’.
Evaluate core and contributory concepts that address questions concerning the relationship between ‘education policy practices’ and ‘global knowledge production’. 
Investigate through active-learning and research, understandings and actions that relate education and knowledge, policy and production. Subject Content Overarching concepts: education policy practice and global knowledge construction
Core concepts: conditions of (im)possibility; contexts of negotiation/distance; modes of reception/rejection; mechanisms of (dis)connection
Contributory concepts: receptive leaders ; knowledge brokers; shared knowledge interests; reduced perception of distance; bridging perceived distance; connected histories; disciplinary boundaries; institutional boundaries; structural hierarchies; intellectual dependency/captive minds; rejection of   difference; acknowledgement; positive affirmation; critical, creative and productive adaptation; mobility, person-to-person encounters,  knowledge networks; shared communicational language; multilingual frame of reference Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report: An evidence-driven analysis of key conceptual tools  2,500 50 N Individual   Essay: A critique of concepts relating to education and knowledge production 2,500 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Curriculum and Ed. Studies (CEDS) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714)