Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 7006 Rethinking Culture and Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800196 Coordinator Gregory Noble Opens in new window Description This subject explores key ideas in social and cultural analysis - such as culture, society, experience, power, nature, local/global, etc - as a way of helping students think through their own research projects. It draws on an approach to cultural and social research, developed at the Institute for Culture and Society, which addresses the contradictions of a world that is increasingly globalised, culturally diverse and technologically mediated. A key aspect of this approach is to revisit the central concepts of social and cultural theory, linked to an overview of existing approaches, developing skills of critical analysis and reflecting on the challenges of interdisciplinarity, methodological pluralism, cultural complexity and engaged research. School Graduate Research School Discipline Other Society And Culture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions This subject is considered mandatory for students supervised within the Institute for Culture and Society Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: understand the processes in articulating and unpacking key theoretical ideas
develop a formulation of their own keywords
reflect upon the challenges of interdisciplinarity, methodological pluralism, cultural complexity and engagement
develop skills in critical analysis Subject Content 1. exploration of key concepts of social and cultural analysis, eg:
- culture, society, experience, practice, power, local/global, nature, economy, technology, etc
2. development of skills of advanced critical analysis
3. reflection on key challenges of:
- interdisciplinarity, methodological pluralism, engaged research, cultural complexity
4. participation in ICS seminar series Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Essay 3,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gregory Noble Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Society and Culture (CULT)