Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7055 Internship Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 200830 Coordinator Laurel Jackson Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point subject over two Quarters, 20 weeks in total, 10 credit points in each Quarter. Internship is designed for students who want to gain industry experience and further their studies through a 20-credit point business internship, conducted over two consecutive teaching sessions. This Internship subject is based on a 'project style' subject which requires students to undertake a research project in their chosen field whilst attending an industry-based internship. These highly sought after internships will be filled on a competitive basis. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. The online offerings for this subject are only available to students enrolled in programs 2770 Master of Commerce (Financial Planning) and 2793 Master of Financial Planning. Students in the following programs must have completed 60 credit points before undertaking this unit: 2793 Master of Financial Planning; 2770 Master of Commerce (Financial Planning); 2624 Master of Business (Operations Management) and 2764 Master of Commerce (Human Resource Management). Students in program 2761 Master of Business Administration must have completed all core subjects plus 40 credit points of major subjects (i.e. a total of 80 credit points) and must obtain permission of the Director of Academic Program before undertaking this subject. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the business environment and organisational structures, business communications skills, business strategy, as well as substantial knowledge in the major discipline area. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate a real business issue within a specific organisation/business.
Analyse and interpret secondary data gathered from a range of sources, to assist in defining the business issue.
Demonstrate the links between theory and practical work environments by using appropriate theoretic frameworks to analyse novel workplace situations.
Apply and apprise appropriate skills and knowledge to work productively in a relevant discipline-related business workplace. Subject Content The internship must be approved by the subject Coordinator prior to students commencing in it. Each internship will involve a literature survey, application of theory and techniques to an industry based problem, methodological investigation, reporting and recommendations. Internships will be industry- based and directly relevant to the student?fs area of interest. Students will work in conjunction with the subject Coordinator and an academic supervisor who is an academic expert in their area of specialization. Students will meet with their Supervisor regularly throughout the study period and with the subject Coordinator, in a class environment, as defined by the subject guidelines. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,500 words and 10 minute presentation 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 4,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 4 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Applied Finance (2759) Master of Business (Operations Management) (2624) Master of Business Administration (2761) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782) Master of Business Analytics (2816) Master of Finance (2705) Master of Marketing (2817)