Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7029 Migration Practice 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201004 Coordinator Jason Donnelly Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the practical processes involved in migration practice as a registered migration agent in Australia.  The subject covers topics such as the interview consulting process with clients, the regime for lodging valid visa application (including the methods of lodgement and preparation procedures) and Freedom of Information requests and practical aspects of communicating with the Department.  This subject also provides students with the opportunity to undertake a capstone practical training placement with a registered migration agent business. NOTE: All students must attend a mandatory onsite intensive one day workshop to address practical aspects of the Occupational Competency Standards of the department of Immigration and Border Protection.   Students must also undertake a five day Capstone Practical training Placement to gain professional experience in the migration agent industry. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7007 AND
LAWS 7003 AND
LAWS 7004 Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7005 AND
LAWS 7028 OR
LAWS 7036 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4914 - Migration Law in Practice Restrictions Must be enrolled in 2803 Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Conduct the interview consulting process between a migration agent and prospective client and migration agent and client.
Prepare, review and lodge visa applications.
Assist with the provision of immigration assistance and migration client files.
Interact with the Department of Immigration and Border Protection, and examine the notification requirements that relate to migration agents.
Conduct a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by a migration agent.
Reflect on self-practice for professional development. Subject Content The interview consulting process
Lodging applications
Freedom of Information requests
Visa application charges
Communicating with the Department
Capstone practical training placement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task - Draft letter to DIBP on behalf of client in relation to migration problem scenario 800 words 10 N Individual   Professional Task - Prepare paper-based visa application to address issues raised in migration problem scenario 3,000 words 30 N Individual   Capstone Practical Training Placement 5 days 30 N Individual   Reflection 1,500 words 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Law (LAWS)