Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 4008 Electrical Drives Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jamal Rizk Opens in new window Description Electrical drives are electromechanical systems which enable electrical machines to function. Through theoretical analyses and practical laboratory exercises, students analyse and evaluate electrical machines and drives as well as examine various types of electrical motors and drive systems, their applications and control. Students conduct experiments on speed control, starting and braking systems, and dynamics of electric motors. These activities comprise essential knowledge and skills for students to be competent in the area of power engineering. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 3006 Learning Outcomes Analyse various types of electrical drive systems.
Analyse a range of methods for speed control of DC and induction motors.
Analyse a range of methods of starting electric motors
Design different braking methods for electric motors
Integrate the concepts of braking of electric motors and renewable energy generation
Conduct laboratory experiments in a safe, responsible and professional manner that replicates real-world scenarios
Apply communication and collaboration skills, with ethical considerations, for reporting outcomes of experimental activities Subject Content Introduction to machine drives. Principal characteristics and requirements. Basic Components of an Electric Drive System.
D.C. motors. Circuit representation. Speed-torque characteristics.
Speed Control of D.C motors
Induction motors. Circuit representation. Speed-torque characteristics.
Speed control of Induction Motors: voltage control, slip-energy recovery, speed control by inverters, frequency and Voltage/Frequency Control.
Power electronic devices and basic power converters.
Braking of Electrical Motors: Regenerative, Dynamics and counter-current braking.
Dynamics of DC and Induction Motors. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 2 hours 25 N Individual N  Practical 3 hours (per practical) 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC)