Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7115 Researching Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101656 Coordinator Christine Johnston Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to engage in research practice in their area of professional interest or specialisation. Students will develop deep insight into the application of research in practice contexts and diverse research methodologies appropriate to practitioner research. They will develop skills in analysing, critiquing, and synthesising the literature in a relevant research area. Evaluation of research literature will be the basis for planning a self-directed professional project that employs identifiable research methods and tools to address a question of personal and/ or professional relevance. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary); 1726 Master of Education (Leadership), 1720 Master of Inclusive Education, 1723 Master of Education (Social Ecology), 1847 Master of Education (STEM), 1888 Master of Education (Leadership and Management), 1911 Master of Education or 1912 Graduate Certificate in Professional Practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify areas of inquiry in a personal or professional context;
Analyse issues of research process, design and implication;
Critique theories underpinning methodologies in practitioner-oriented research;
Apply qualitative, quantitative and/ or mixed-method approaches to practice-based research;
Demonstrate skills and knowledge involved in conducting academic inquiry;
Evaluate research literature and determine its relevance;
Critically reflect on own practice/experience and relationship to evidence from the field Subject Content 1. Explore a range of mixed-methods approaches to practitioner-oriented research methodologies and methods;
2. Articulate a researchable thematic concern, problem or area of investigation relevant to the student?fs life/work;
3. Scope a working interpretation of the identified area of professional practice and use it as a framework for designing and conducting research;
4. Conduct a comprehensive and focussed literature search and write a critical review, analysing and synthesising literature relevant to the research;
5. Prepare a preliminary research plan that includes a consideration of ethical research practices. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Proposal 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Christine Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Christine Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Christine Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Professional Practice (1912) Master of Education (1911) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Teacher Education (TEAC)