Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 4001 Professional Reasoning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401125 Coordinator Ali Gebhardt Opens in new window Description This final year subject focuses on the transition from student to practitioner. The aim of this subject is to provide students with learning opportunities that will consolidate and enhance their competence in professional practice throughout their career. Professional competencies of central concern include advanced professional reasoning skills, evidence based-practice, reflective practice, personal and career management strategies, self-directed and life-long learning. These competencies contribute positively to the effective management of graduates’ professional practice in various work contexts, and their future career paths. Acquisition of such skills will allow the graduate to direct and adapt to change in these areas. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Incompatible Subjects HLTH 7013 - Professional Reasoning Restrictions 1. Students must be enrolled in 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. 2. Students must have completed 240 credit points within 4711 Bachelor or Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) This is a capstone subject designed to prepare students for transition into their final practice placement(s) and future practice. The subject is scheduled prior to students completing their final practice placement(s) to optimise application of theory, skills, and competencies. Completion of compulsory core subjects is required to facilitate this transition. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify various models and classifications of professional reasoning and analyse their use in practice
Apply occupational therapy theories and conceptual models to guide professional reasoning in practice scenarios
Apply the occupational therapy problem solving process to practice scenarios and reflect on professional reasoning during the different stages of problem solving
Reflect on their own professional reasoning skills and identify strategies to move from a novice to expert reasoning
Apply principles of ethical reasoning to various practice scenarios Subject Content Models and theories of professional reasoning
Use of professional reasoning to guide client management
Models and theories of occupational therapy practice and process
Using evidence based practice to guide client management and the role of evidence-based practice in professional reasoning
Strategies to move from novice to expert in professional reasoning
Principles of ethical reasoning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Reflection 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Learning Contract 1,500 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Ali Gebhardt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Other Health (HLTH)