Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 2003 Incubator 3: Product Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301168 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description Product development is about expanding on a creative, innovative idea or concept through specific stages into a product or service. Students apply practical learning techniques in each of the stages for the product or service development. In addition, students use a human-centred design approach to explore a problem and include a ‘human’ or user perspective in addressing the problem. The approach includes creating a digital or physical prototype to test the product or service concept with potential customers. Students create and apply methods to collect feedback from potential customers which is used to refine their prototype. In these activities students are applying critical and creative thinking, decision making and communication skills which are essential employability skills. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Project Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Demonstrate knowledge of the approaches associated with customer experience, user experience, service and product design.
2. Develop a physical or digital prototype.
3. Test and validate a product or service with potential customers and observational analysis.
4. Collaborate in an effective and inclusive manner to achieve the required group outcomes.
5. Demonstrate professional, ethical verbal and written communication skills that appeal to a wide audience. Subject Content Customer experience, user experience, service and product design
Human centred design approach – Discover, Define, Develop, Deliver quantitative and qualitative research
Prototyping and testing
AI tools and systems in experience, service and product design Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Images, prototype, text equivalent to 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Group N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Design Practice, Major (0225) Graphic and Design (DESN) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)