Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3049 Screen Media: Capstone Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102833 Coordinator Wendy Chandler Opens in new window Description In this subject students develop a major screen media project which will be produced in the subject Screen Media Capstone Production. The nature of the project may vary depending on students' interests and career aspirations. Projects may range from documentary, drama, episodic, animation, immersive, transmedia, interactive and other hybrid forms. Depending on the nature the project, projects maybe developed individually or in interdisciplinary groups. Projects may be original creative ideas or undertaken in collaboration with an industry and/or community partner. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 2052 Documentary Factual Screen Media AND COMM 3053 Narrative Fictional Screen Media Equivalent Subjects - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Conduct research and analyse material to inform the creation of a screen media project.
Create a comprehensive project proposal document for a screen media project.
Produce industry standard planning documents relevant to screen media pre-production theory practices.
Explain contemporary business models and distribution platforms in the screen media industry.
Consolidate skills and knowledge in their preferred area of interest.
Reflect on collaborative work practices and methodologies and the work of self and others. Subject Content The development, writing and presentation of a major screen media project.
Industry standard planning and preproduction workflows.
Business skills and changes to distribution platforms in the screen media industry.
The refinement of skills and knowledge in a particular crew role or roles of interest.
Collaborative work practices and methodologies.
Critical refection on the pre-production work of self and others. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual N  Proposal 2,000 words or equivalent 40 N Group N  Proposal 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Practical 1,000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015)