Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3007 Emerging Trends in Information Systems (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300942 Coordinator Ana Hol Opens in new window Description In this advanced subject, students explore the changing nature of information systems in organisations. Apart from being encouraged to research and assess new technologies and implement effective strategies for achieving change within organisational information systems, students will be required to undertake an individual, but closely supervised research project. The project will help stimulate inquiry, strengthen needs for academic research and encourage students to actively participate in new knowledge generation. Furthermore, students will be required to present their findings in a form of an academic paper with a possibility of publishing. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects INFS 3006 - Emerging Trends in Information Systems Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs and successfully completed 140 credit points: 3688 Bachelor of Information Systems (Advanced) or 3745 Bachelor of Information Systems (Advanced)/Bachelor of Business or 2801 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws or 2842 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to Review and analyse current and emerging trends in information systems technologies, including implementation challenges and future impacts on individuals, organisations, and society.
Analyse requirements and develop plans for information systems applications, with attention to stakeholder engagement.
Examine and evaluate the roles and suitability of business intelligence and data mining strategies for information systems applications.
Assess organisational readiness for new technologies with a user-centred approach.
Examine and evaluate collaborative information systems technologies and applications. 
Analyse the ethical and social implications of information systems technologies, considering their effects on diverse communities. 
Develop skills for applying information systems strategies in future career settings, incorporating project management, design thinking and change management techniques. 
Review, analyse, and summarise current literature in selected information systems topics, including research on emerging trends and innovations.
Identify research gaps and propose research questions.
Conduct the research investigation and develop a research output (ie. framework, model, method, system). Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 2000 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 5 minutes presentation and a 6-8 pages conference paper 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 3 - 5 minutes video and 1A4 PowerPoint Page 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ana Hol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Information Systems (INFS)