Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7008 Environmental Forensics 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301152 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window Description The subject is designed for professionals working in environmental regulatory authorities and laboratories at the federal, state or local level. This includes but is not limited to police jurisdictions, environmental protection agencies (EPAs), coastguards, park rangers, customs and quarantine officials. It is designed to give the environment law enforcement officer a background in the principles of contaminant analysis and transport in the environment with the ultimate aim of determining liability for pollution. The syllabus includes the main modes of contaminant transport in air, water and land, as well as an in-depth look at hydrocarbon fingerprinting. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3741 Master of Forensic Science, 3742 Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science or 3743 Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Communicate their knowledge, ideas and opinions in environmental forensics in appropriate written forms
Identify and analyse the main features of problems related to environmental forensics
Describe environmental systems and their forensic relevance with an international perspective
Describe and calculate the partitioning and speciation of chemicals in the environment
Interpret, analyse and evaluate contaminant transport models Subject Content 1. Introduction
2. Toxicity
3. Identification of hydrocarbons
4. Fate of chemicals - partitioning
5. Fate of chemicals - biotransformations
6. Environmental transport models
7. Groundwater transport models
8. Atmospheric dispersion models Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam Not specified 100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)