Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7067 Acute Life-Threatening Conditions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401447 Coordinator Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window Description Acute Life-Threatening Conditions utilises an evidence-based approach to develop an understanding of the pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and nursing care for people across the lifespan who experience an acute life-threatening condition. An important area of focus is detecting and recognising acute deterioration and escalating care. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7066 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Well-developed knowledge of human biological sciences and body systems, sound understanding of the concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Interpret the causes, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic procedures concerning acute life-threatening conditions. 2. Justify the selection and prioritisation of nursing strategies to provide safe, effective, evidence-based nursing care for a person experiencing an acute life-threatening condition. 3. Evaluate appropriate, safe, effective, and evidence-based treatment for a person experiencing an acute life-threatening condition. 4. Exhibit effective communication and collaboration when detecting and recognising  acute deterioration and escalating care Subject Content Knowledge and application of the following concepts to inform professional nursing practice related to acute life-threatening and/or traumatic complex health conditions utilising both critical thinking problem-solving skills and a lifespan approach.
Discuss the importance of the National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards
Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice
Recognition of deteriorating patient using DETECT framework
Management of the deteriorating patient
Primary and secondary survey for trauma injury management including burns
Sudden unexpected death
Ethico-legal responsibilities
Pathophysiology
Pharmacology
Diagnostic procedures
Management of acute life- threatening conditions
Nursing management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 30 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 15 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)