Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1008 Engineering Materials Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300965 Coordinator Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce fundamentals of engineering materials. The topics will include materials structure, properties, processing and applications, degradation of materials, sustainability, and the selection of materials for various engineering applications. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1014 - Engineering Design Concepts (EDC) ENGR 1034 - Engineering and Design Concepts (UWSC) LGYB 0481 - Engineering and Design Concepts (UWSC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1009 - Engineering Materials (WSTC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1010 - Engineering Materials (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge HSC mathematics (not General Mathematics), physics and chemistry. Learning Outcomes describe and identify the atomic structure, bonding, crystal structure and defects of materials;
explain and determine the various properties of materials (e.g., mechanical, thermal, electrical, optical, magnetic);
identify and explain the mechanical failures, corrosion, and degradation of materials and how to prevent them;
select an appropriate material for a given application;
apply sustainability principles in engineering practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Self-Assessment (1) Total mark for tutorials will be 20. (2) There are 10 weekly online tutorial s, and each weights 2 marks. 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Quiz Two quizzes 15 marks each
 1 hour each quiz.  30 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours each 20 N Both (Individual & Group) N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC)