Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4009 Professional Practice 3-5 years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102686 Coordinator Denise Fraser Opens in new window Description The subject is the final professional experience subject in the Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), comprising a 30-day placement with children aged 3-5 years. It has a strong focus on pedagogical leadership, initiating and sustaining collaborative partnerships with staff, children and families, and implementation of integrated curriculum through effective programming and planning. The subject facilitates in-depth investigation and critical thinking, preparing students to connect to children’s social worlds and provide innovative, inclusive and meaningful learning environments. This subject requires students to apply the principles, practices and outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0). This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 3050 Professional Practice Birth – 3 years Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 240 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically reflect on personal learning and practice, feedback from field-based and university-based supervising teachers and the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers to evaluate the impact of teaching and leadership.
Evaluate children’s play, learning, dispositions and relationships, using theories of early childhood development and learning, and use this information to inform planning and practice
Apply curriculum approaches and pedagogies that are contextually responsive and promote children’s investigation, problem solving, critical thinking and the development of deep knowledge
Plan for resources that encourage children to use a range of media and technologies to investigate their ideas and values and represent their thinking
Implement innovative teaching and learning cycles, providing experiences and project opportunities that extend on children’s strengths and interests
Apply pedagogical leadership, social and administrative skills relative to the professional experience setting
Apply the principles, practices and learning outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0), drawing on content knowledge in the areas of science and technology, mathematics, human society, physical education health and wellbeing, creative arts, English and literacy to engage in interactions with children that extend their learning. Subject Content Development of a professional portfolio, including a situational analysis of the professional experience setting, critically reflective professional learning goals, planning, documentation, observations, and philosophy of practice
Pedagogy and practices to support learners from diverse backgrounds including children from Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander backgrounds, children from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds and children with diverse learning needs, including those with disabilities. 
 Integrated play-based curriculum across key concept areas that is responsive to children’s funds of knowledge, dispositions and interests.
Pedagogical leadership skills: supporting reflective thinking and inquiry, collaborative planning, implementing and evaluating an inclusive and engaging total learning environment, and nurturing dispositions 
Grouping strategies for promoting positive interactions and pro-social guidance, extending learning and strengthening relationships 
Pedagogies for learning: play, projects, small groups, learning centres, integrated curriculum 
Efficient practices for observations, assessment of and for learning, planning, and documentation.
Intentional teaching strategies and techniques that facilitate children’s investigation, problem-solving and critical thinking; planning, implementing and evaluating the total learning environment.
The  Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0) principles, practices and learning outcomes to document, assess and plan, implement and evaluate for learning. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days placement S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 30 days placement S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)