Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3002 Child Abuse as a Social Issue (Block Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101768 Coordinator Samia Michail Opens in new window Description This subject examines the way in which child abuse has become a public issue. It considers the assumptions, values and interests which underlie definitions of abuse as well as intervention and prevention strategies promoted to protect children from abuse. The subject examines cultural constructions of childhood, the positioning of children within society, relations of power between children and adults within communities and families, gender relations, and social discourses about children and families. The subject emphasises the importance of children being active participants in decisions made for their protection; and intervention and prevention strategies for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5808 - Child Abuse as a Social Issue
WELF 3001- Child Abuse as a Social Issue Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed 60 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse state and community responses to child abuse
Identify the ideologies and theories underpinning different definitions of child abuse
Recognise the impact of social and cultural factors in shaping social discourses about children and their families, including gender relations, power relationships between children and adults and the position of children within families
Demonstrate critical understanding of intervention and prevention strategies within Aboriginal and Torres Strait islander communities
Examine the impact on children of child abuse interventions and prevention programs
Demonstrate an understanding of the skills required for working directly with children in abusive situations Subject Content 1. Theoretical and ideological frameworks for understanding Child Abuse
2. The construction of Childhood
3. Competing cultural and social definitions of childhood
4. Power relationships between adults and children and between children and the state
5. Construction of child abuse as a social problem
6. The position of children particularly in relation to child protection
7. Roles of key stakeholders including agencies, families, communities, the state and children
8. Skills in working with children
9. Role of the legal system in child protection
10. Intervention strategies including out-of-home care
11. Prevention and early intervention with a particular focus on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case study: Case study analysis 1000 words 35 N Individual   Presentation: In class presentation: providing the basis of final paper 10 mins 25 N Individual   Report: Strategic discussion paper 1500 words 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF)