Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5012 HSIE Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102870 Coordinator Shea Rigney Opens in new window Description The subject build upon curriculum subjects in Human Society and its Environment (HSIE) for teaching in Stage 6. The subject will provide deeper opportunities to engage with the critical inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant HSIE NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Syllabuses will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying HSIE such as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, Civics and Citizenship, sustainability and heritage for senior students in relevant humanities and social science disciplines. Opportunities to engage in project based inquiry to support senior curriculum in HSIE will be a strong focus within the subject. The subject will comprise critical exploration of current research particularly related to the development of pedagogical inquiry and concepts for senior students. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have a relevant HSIE Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the discipline and intent of the range of syllabuses in HSIE with relation to Australian educational policies and priorities.
Analyse inquiry pedagogical theories and approaches used in teaching HSIE such as Civics and Citizenship, Aboriginal and Torres Strait islander perspectives and cultural capacity.
Create well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which consider the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Design a relevant and range of assessment instruments that use appropriate and meaningful contexts for learning.
Design innovative real world teaching resources including site and field studies that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching HSIE and include opportunities to develop students’ inquiry skills.
Apply a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of sources in teaching lessons and programs. Subject Content What is the nature of the HSIE in the senior years of education? 
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are inquiry and critical lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in HSIE?
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching of HSIE during field and site studies?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the discipline of HSIE?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the discipline of HSIE? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2012-2020) HSIE Stage 6 Syllabuses Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)