Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7002 Clinical Studies in Psychotherapy and Counselling Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102365 Coordinator Susan Field Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop clinical practice skills. It will involve preparation for the field placements and group supervision of casework and issues arising from the placements. The subject involves a clinical placement working under the guidance of a clinical supervisor from the professional background of the students under supervision. Students are required to undertake 100 placement hours. School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 7009 AND
WELF 7010 AND
WELF 7006 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1627 - Clinical Studies (Counselling) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1817 Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling or 1647 Graduate Diploma in Counselling. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of counselling theory and practice and professional practice in a clinical context. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate theoretical knowledge and practical skills in order to effectively work with clients in the placement setting.
Demonstrate ability to reflect critically upon one's clinical work through observation, documentation, audiotape and case study analysis.
Participate appropriately and effectively as a member of an agency clinical team as demonstrated through consistent professional conduct inclusive of ethical, legal and cross-cultural considerations.
Achieve an appropriate standard of professional and clinical practice for a graduating clinician in counselling and psychotherapy through completion of required number of supervised placement hours.
Demonstrate understanding of the counselling experience from the position of the client and how this learning informs clinical practice. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Ongoing S/US Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 100 hours S/US Y Individual Y  Reflection 2,000 Words S/US Y Individual Y  Report 3,000 Words S/US Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Susan Field Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma in Counselling (1647) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling (1817)