Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 0001 Academic Skills for Health Science (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700225 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to become successful independent learners.  It introduces students to a range of theories and concepts to facilitate the development of practical skills and personal attitudes necessary for success in tertiary study.  Emphasis is placed on developing the key competencies such as time management, critical thinking, researching, learning how to learn and referencing. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 0002 - Academic Skills for Health Science (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand and develop time management skills.
Develop appropriate online communication skills for tertiary studies and beyond.
Communicate effectively through the development of critical reading and writing skills in context.
Locate and use information technology systems and educational technologies to support learning and assessment.
Apply critical thinking, and use problem solving skills and research skills, to make informed decisions.
Assess their own learning styles and the contribution to learning how to learn. Subject Content 1. Learning styles and cue awareness
2. Referencing
3. Goals, time management and procrastination
4. Successful learning and critical thinking
5. Note taking, summarising and paraphrasing
6. Sources of information and researching
7. Strengths and weaknesses in what we read Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project A)1x 150 words (10%)
B)1x quiz (10%)
C)1x 200 words (10%)
D)1x 200 words (10%)
E)1x quiz (10%) 50 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Charlise Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Charlise Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Extended (7143) Diploma in Health Science Extended (7142) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)