Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7041 Diabetes Self-Management Support 1: Individuals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401285 Coordinator Therese Fletcher Opens in new window Description Supporting individuals to self-manage their diabetes is the central element of advanced diabetes practice. Underpinned by the empowerment approach, students undertaking this subject will learn the necessary knowledge and skills in educating people with diabetes how to best manage their condition and support behaviours and emotional wellbeing that achieves person centred goals. Drawing on educational, psychological, social and behavioural theories students will learn practical skills in communication, psychological assessment, goal setting and problem-solving that will promote self-care for people with prediabetes and diabetes. This subject is only offered in Spring Session. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the a postgraduate program with evidence of 12 month clinically relevant practice or substantial experience in working with people with diabetes. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Establish an empowerment and person-centred approach in supporting and educating a person with diabetes to optimally self-manage their condition and partner with health professionals involved with their health care.
Apply interpersonal communications strategies to develop a trusting rapport and assess a person's value
Individualise emotional and psychological support for people with diabetes to enhance wellbeing and minimise psychological complications.
Assess the cultural, social and family background that may impact on a person’s ability to self-manage their diabetes
Employ evidence-based teaching and learning strategies for individual and groups to enhance diabetes self-management and care
Utilise different evidence- based behavioural strategies to initiate and sustain behaviour change for people with diabetes to optimise self-care Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Four Tutorials - 90 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N  Y  Viva Voce 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Therese Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Therese Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4761) Graduate Diploma in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4762) Medical Studies (MEDI)