Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4021 The High Risk Foot Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401184 Coordinator Viv Chuter Opens in new window Description The subject builds on fundamentals of pathophysiology and podiatry specific subjects to understand and manage the impact of systemic disease on foot health. The subject specifically investigates pathology associated with the 'high risk foot' including lower extremity manifestations associated with vascular, endocrine, neurological pathology and immunosuppression. This subject aims to develop comprehensive, coherent and connected knowledge to assist making informed decisions and contribute to sustainable change and improvements in health care for people with systemic disease, with particularly emphasis on diabetes and wound management. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2003 AND
REHA 2007 AND
NATS 2038 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3028 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7026 - Podiatric Techniques 3C Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). This subject builds on previous podiatry specific clinical and theory subjects Assumed Knowledge All core subjects are assumed knowledge - 400868 Human Anatomy and Physiology 1, 400869 Human Anatomy and Physiology 2, 300574 Neuroanatomy400981 Clinical Pharmacology, 400138 Pathophysiology 1. Learning Outcomes Critique the anatomical, physiological and pathophysiological differences of the arterial, venous, lymphatic and microvascular systems and discern between the diseases of these systems and their consequences in the lower extremity.
Execute a thorough examination of the lower extremity vasculature, diagnose vascular status, recognise limitations of these examinations during interpretation of results and instigate an appropriate management plan.
Appraise the structure and function of specific functional units of the nervous system, demonstrate knowledge of a range of neurological and neuromotor disorders and explore treatment options available with an emphasis on the role of the podiatrist in the interdisciplinary health care team.
Describe the physiological mechanisms of wound healing, in the presence or absence of normal physiological response and thorough examination and investigations and ascertain the underlying causes of the wound, and generate and implement appropriate strategies to return the tissues to their most functional levels by addressing both the wound and the underlying causes.
Discuss the physiological basis of the clinical manifestations of diabetes mellitus as it affects multiple organ and functional systems by performing appropriate examinations (vascular, neurological, musculoskeletal, dermatological and psychosocial).
Diagnose, evaluate and treat the foot conditions presented by the person with diabetes mellitus, in particular dermal ulcers and explain the role of physical therapies, particularly footwear and orthotic therapy in the ongoing patient management, and health education and promotion strategies.
Define a range of conditions associated with impaired carbohydrate metabolism, including gestational diabetes, and impaired glucose tolerance; and be familiar with the syndrome Diabetes Insipidus for purposes of client education and communication with the allied health team.
Appraise the common causes of immunosuppression affecting the at-risk foot and generate a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of those infectious diseases which are of particular importance in the practice of podiatry.
Evaluate possible routes of transmission of infectious diseases with particular emphasis on cross infection and discuss and implement universal precautions in clinical practice settings.
Determine the impact of infectious disease on the physical, emotional and psychological wellbeing of the individual. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 30 minutes 40 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 mins 40 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance Attendance at and participation in all face to face tutorials and a clinical session is required S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Viv Chuter Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)