Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2018 Elements of Language: Analysis and Application Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401434 Coordinator Kate Connelly Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce core linguistic concepts including the sound structure of language (phonetics), how sounds convey meaning (phonology), the formal structure of words (morphology) and sentences (syntax), and the ways in which each of these differ across languages. Emphasis will be placed on the cultural and linguistic diversity of the Western Sydney region, and this will serve as a lens through which the linguistic concepts covered throughout the course will be taught. Students will learn how to transcribe typical and disordered speech using the International Phonetic Alphabet and will be familiarised with how to analyse language at the phoneme, word, and sentence levels. Knowledge will be applied to the exploration of real-world clinical cases. The knowledge acquired within this subject will lay the foundations for understanding, diagnosing and treating speech and language disorders. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology or 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours). Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students will have an introductory understanding of the core range of practice areas in Speech Pathology (speech, language, voice, fluency, multimodal communication, and swallowing) and awareness of typical patterns of speech and language development across the lifespan. Learning Outcomes Explain the concepts of phonetics, phonology, syntax, morphology, semantics and pragmatics and explore their relevance to the field of linguistics and profession of Speech Pathology
Accurately transcribe typical and disordered speech phonemically and phonetically, using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA)
Grammatically analyse typical and disordered language at word, phrase, sentence and clause level
Utilize linguistics to problem-solve clinical and research-based case scenarios exploring linguistic development, difference and disorder Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes / 20 questions 10 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 word (Structured Template) 45 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 12 x transcription modules (20 questions each)  S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Ellie Sugden Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)