Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 7007 Mechanical System Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301018 Coordinator Richard Yang Opens in new window Description This subject advances students understanding on product design and development of machine components and assemblies using systems engineering approaches. The subject covers a review on the design of main components of machinery to ensure their functionality, strength and durability, which includes drive components - gears, shafts, belt drives, and bearings, and structural components - welds and treaded fasteners. The machine assembly design is delivered based on systems engineering. Academic skills on research and communication are ensured to be achieved through conducting systems engineering approached-based mechanical system design projects. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Master of Engineering, Graduate Certificate in Engineering or Bachelor of Research Studies / Master of Research. Assumed Knowledge The students are assumed to have a good understanding on basics of mechanical design, fundamentals and advanced topics in mechanics of materials, fundamentals on fluid mechanics and heat transfer and thermal dynamics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the concepts of machine design in devising machine components design
Recognise standard engineering formats of representing machine parts
Apply governing standards guiding mechanical design to interpret and evaluate mechanical component and system design
Apply the design process towards an applied end
Examine the typical design process using basics of main machine components and bearing design and their selection
Apply principles of stress analysis for sizing of machine components and systems engineering approaches to perform a mechanical system design overall
Practise design alternatives to enhance CAD skills using commercial software
Conduct mechanical design in a team working environment Subject Content 1. Nature of Mechanical System Design and Systems Engineering
2. Machine Component Design I - Chain Drives, Belt Drives, and Gears
3. Machine Component Design II - Shaft, Keys, Couplings and Seals
4. Machine Component Design III - Machine Frames, Bolted Connection and Welded Joints
5. Systems Engineering Design I - Systems Engineering Landscape and Structure of Complex Systems
6. Systems Engineering Design II - The System Development Process and Systems Engineering Management
7. Systems Engineering Design III - Systems Engineering Management
8. Systems Engineering Design IV - Concept Development
9. Systems Engineering Design V - Engineering Development
10. Systems Engineering Design VI - Post Development Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 3 x approx. 6 pages each 30 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 4 x approx. 5 pages each 20 N Individual Y  Report 15-min oral presentation conducted in class and marked individually (10%) and design project report marked as group work (30%) 40 Y Group Y  Quiz 1 hour each including ten minutes reading time 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Richard Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical and Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T112) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T063)