Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5025 Music Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102878 Coordinator Rachel White Opens in new window Description The subject will build on Music Curriculum 1 and examines and models effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior Music in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with inquiry pedagogy and historical thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying Music teaching to develop innovative lessons and subject planning, choose relevant tools, create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior music performance, composition and production will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714 or 1914 must have Music Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Music syllabuses and the effect upon syllabus implementation of current NSW and Australian educational policies and priorities.
Demonstrate understanding of socio-cultural perspectives, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives where relevant, and pedagogical theories and approaches used in teaching senior Music.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of senior assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design and select innovative teaching resources  that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching senior Music and include opportunities to develop students’ inquiry skills.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of  sources in teaching lessons and programs.
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of Music teaching. Subject Content What is the nature of the Music in the senior years of secondary education? 
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about Music education? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2009) Music Stage 6 Syllabus. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)