Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 4007 Wireless Communications Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300065 Coordinator Ranjith Liyanapathirana Opens in new window Description The subject covers the analysis, design and operation of modern wireless communication systems.  The primary focus is on the physical layer and hardware, emphasizing the fundamentals of coding and modulation, spread spectrum and multiple access techniques. Current wireless architectures and mobile communication systems are also covered. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Communications Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 3001 OR
ELEC 3002 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5692 - Digital Communication Engineering Assumed Knowledge Students should have a good understanding of signals and systems, probability and random processes and fundamentals of communication systems. Learning Outcomes Describe and analyse current wireless communication systems including GSM, CDMA, PCS, W-LAN. Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, 3G and 4G mobile systems.
Describe and analyse coding and modulation techniques used in wireless communication systems.
Analyse bit error rates, receiver structures (correlation and matched filter), spectral occupancy and antenna diversity.
Explain the physical properties of the radio channel.
Describe basic forms of multiple access techniques applied to wireless communication.
Calculate a free-space link budget and a terrestrial link budget.
Determine bit error probabilities and coding gains of coding and modulation techniques used in wireless communication.
Design wireless communication systems Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour, closed book, individual 20 N Individual Y  Practical 5 x 3 hrs individual,  practical assignments 20 Y Individual Y  Final Exam 3 hours individual, closed book 60 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ranjith Liyanapathirana Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Telecommunications Engineering, Minor (0338) Telecommunications, Concentration (0120)