Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1068 Intersectionality: Identity, Diversity and Difference (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window Description This subject explores various relevant theories, narratives and concepts that underpin social scientific scholarship. Students will gain critical insight into ideas such as identity, culture, structures of inequality and difference (e.g. such as gender, race, class, sexuality), and their intersections. With a focus on contemporary social life, the subject provides opportunity for students to consider current social issues and various macro and micro forces impacting social change on a social and spatial level. By exploring a range of key theories and concepts in the social sciences, students will gain knowledge and skills in how to analyse our social world – the world in which they will be working in the future as professionals – and thereby be in a position to more fully comprehend the world around them, its issues, problems, inequalities and injustices that they will be working with. The subject will prepare students with a range of skills relevant to scholarship in the social sciences, such as critical reading, sociological theorisation and analysis, as well as statistical and spatial literacy. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Understand theories of culture, identity, difference and power.
Describe the concept of intersectionality and its application in contemporary Australian society.
Identify the social and spatial contexts of diversity and difference in Australia.
Recognise the impacts of global forces (such as globalisation and environmental change) on people, place and society.
Utilise primary and secondary data to observe patterns of diversity and difference over time and space.
Apply key concepts to contemporary case studies. Subject Content Concepts of culture, cultural difference and identity
Social stratification, inequality, polarisation and power
Intersectionality
Historical and social contexts of diversity and difference in Australia
Social and spatial impact of diversity and difference on people
Global and local impact of globalisation and environmental change
Alternatives: Good practice, policy and research on working with diverse contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 200 words 10 N Individual N  Report 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Poster 500 words + visual 35 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn Block 4 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 4 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)