Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 2011 Motion Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102273 Coordinator Greg Hughes Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the fundamentals of motion design practice. Students will discover how elements of static graphic design can be incorporated with sequence, time, space and sound to enhance the exchange of information and meaning in a variety of project contexts and kinetic media outcomes. Additionally, students will discover the purpose and function of motion design and be able to identify professional pathways associated with these skills and knowledge. Students will be exposed to a range of motion design preproduction and production methods, from fundamentals and guidelines to experimental and expressive approaches. Students will learn the importance of planning, mapping and evaluating linear narrative, in combination with the introduction of key software supported by online video courses, for successful motion design outcomes. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1021 OR
COMM 2042 OR
COMM 2051 OR
COMM 2051 AND
COMP 2020 Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have computer literacy including working in a networked environment on a Macintosh computer; management, transportation and storage of digital information and digital production processes such as scanning, pdf production and file storage.Literacy with image manipulation software - Photoshop and Illustrator is required. Learning Outcomes Employ a motion design vocabulary for professional design production and group critique.
Analyse the purpose and function of motion design in historical, cultural, social, technological and industry contexts.
Synthesise motion design preproduction solutions utilising print and screen-based media to specific design briefs.
Produce motion design artefacts utilising time-based media and software to specific design briefs
Creatively apply kinetic typography as a means to enhance the relay of information and meaning for improved communication.
Apply graphic design knowledge in a time-based medium as a means to enhance the relay of information and meaning for improved communication.
Produce and present project work to a professional standard. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1. Static graphic design piece; 2. Production planning material (500 words or equivalent); 3. 20-30 second motion design video. 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1. Production planning material (500-750 words or equivalent); 2. Documentation of design development (500 words or equivalent); 3. 60-120 second motion graphics piece. 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Greg Hughes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6013) Game Design, Testamur Major (T060) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)