Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1010 Music Performance 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102553 Coordinator David Cashman Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will develop their performance skills through participating in three modularised workshops. The first two workshops will run in parallel with each other and will be rotated: module 1 will focus on improvisation; and module 2 will focus on (western or non-western) music from an oral tradition. Module 3 will then extend students' skills in reading and arranging music, utilising their preferred performing media (voice or instrument). In this third module, they will perform set technical tasks (such as scales and arpeggios) and, in groups, they will arrange and perform one set piece of music from a basic notated score, and they will choose, arrange and perform another piece. They will perform one piece chosen from modules 1, 2, or 3 in a public venue on campus. The subject will also introduce basic music business skills, such as how to advertise and mount a public performance. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 1008 - Introduction to Music Performance Assumed Knowledge Students to undertake audition/interview. On entry into this subject students need to demonstrate that they can perform music at an equivalent level of the audition standard. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: perform music in large and small group combinations
create improvisations
perform music from an oral tradition
demonstrate proficiency in the performance of set technical tasks
implement strategies for arranging a set piece from a basic notated score
rehearse and perform in small groups a set piece from a basic score
devise a business plan for promoting and mounting a performance as part of a short reflective essay on the process of creating and performing a musical performance
perform the music created in one of the three modules in a public venue
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in attending the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content The subject will include practical and theoretical tasks pertinent to music performance as follows: Rehearsals leading to performances of music from an oral tradition (western or non-western)
Improvisation in large and small group combinations, using notated and non-notated formats, and utilising a variety of improvising styles, techniques and approaches
Rehearsals and performance in small groups of set technical tasks, such as scales and arpeggios
Arrangement of a prescribed simple notated piece from a pertinent repertoire in students?f preferred performing media (voice or instrument) for group rehearsal and performance
Arrangement of a piece of music chosen by students to rehearse and perform in their preferred performing media (voice or instrument)
Essay on contemporary music performance. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 5 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 7 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 10 minutes 40 N Group N  Reflection 150 words per entry 20 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Cashman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Performance Studies, Minor (0024) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music Studies, Major (0343) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF)