Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1045 Foundations of the Communication Industry Credit Points 10 Coordinator Adam Daniel Opens in new window Description In Foundations of the Communication Industry, students will be introduced to some of the key understandings and opportunities across a diverse set of communication disciplines (including Advertising, Journalism, Public Relations, and Screen Media), and how these disciplines intersect, integrate, and relate to each other. This hands-on subject will provide students with a strong understanding of the fundamental principles, theories, and practices that shape the contemporary communication landscape, and what the future holds for this dynamic industry. Students will learn from industry contributors working on the frontlines, and through a combination of theoretical concepts, guest lectures by industry professionals, and practical case studies, they will develop critical thinking, analytical skills, and an appreciation for the ethical considerations behind communication. Available to students from all disciplines, this subject will suit those starting out in their studies of Communication, and those who are seeking to become well-rounded professionals with the capacity to adapt and excel in the current and future contemporary communication landscape. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 1040 Introduction to Screen Media (WSTC) Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Define the communication industry, using national and international examples. 
Identify and define the fields of study within the Communication Industry.
Apply research skills to investigate and communicate the career trajectory of a communication industry professional.
Describe the relationship between Advertising, Journalism, Public Relations, and Screen Media, and how these specialisations integrate to form the communication industry.
Understand current communication work practices and what the future of the industry might look like. Subject Content Introduction to the Communication Industry
History of the communication industry, with specific focus on the contribution of Indigenous Australian peoples and communities
The advertising industry
The journalism industry
The public relations industry
The screen media industry
How the industries intersect, integrate, and relate to each other
Communicating with a social and environmental conscience
Storytelling: Crafting compelling messages and measuring their impact
The impact of AI on the industry
Future of the communication industry Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Class Participation is graded across each week of the teaching semester, and the students are given 60 minutes to complete each online quiz 30 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Adam Daniel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Adam Daniel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Adam Daniel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication / Bachelor of International Studies (1932) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)