Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7075 Nursing Practice 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401462 Coordinator Miranda Daly Opens in new window Description Nursing Practice 3 focuses on the development of the role and skills of the registered nurse when assessing and caring for people across the lifespan who are experiencing acute life-threatening illness and life limiting illness. A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and simulated skills assessment and professional experience placement will support clinical skill development. The subject includes 160 hours of Professional Experience Placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7074 Co-requisite(s) NURS 7067 Assumed Knowledge Well developed knowledge of human biological sciences and body systems, sound understanding of the concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Justify the principles of safe medication administration in complex clinical scenarios and their application in simulated and clinical learning environments.  
2. Evaluate nursing care plans by monitoring progress towards the expected goals, health outcomes and interdisciplinary interventions based on the best available evidence and assessment data.
3. Document and effectively communicate the nursing care plans to achieve improved health outcomes. 
4. Prescribe comprehensive safe, quality nursing practice to achieve agreed goals and outcomes that are responsive to the care of people in simulated and clinical learning environments
5. Competently perform safe medication administration, with a focus of non-parenteral and parenteral medications, for people who are experiencing acute life-threatening illness or end of life conditions, in simulated and clinical learning environments.
6. Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in nursing. Subject Content 1. National Health Priority case histories relating to life threatening or life limiting complex care
2. Provision of safe, evidence-based nursing care by
3. Accessing and analysing the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice
4. Effective communication in a multidisciplinary approach to care
5. National Safety and Quality Health Services Standards
6. Preventing and Controlling Healthcare Associated Infections
7. Medication Safety
8. Patient Identification and Procedure Matching
9. Clinical Handover
10. Recognising and responding to clinical deterioration in acute healthcare
11. Grief associated with sudden unexpected death
12. Ethical and legal responsibilities
13. Working in multi-disciplinary teams
14. Clinical Practicum Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Western Course Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your course. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your course, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you 1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one 2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history 3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements 4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements: the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements
If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements.
NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire course.
Current approved first aid certificate valid for your entire course - approved course providers can be found at the Government Training website
http://training.gov.au
Other non-health related requirements.
Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW Students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation 100% S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 160 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Miranda Daly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Miranda Daly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)