Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3017 Health Variations 5 - Palliative and End of Life Care Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401212 Coordinator Cris Algoso Opens in new window Description  Health Variations 5 - Palliative and End of Life Care focuses on the palliative approach as a model of care, exploring the benefits of this approach when supporting dying individuals with any life limiting illness. Students will also acquire the capabilities to develop self-care strategies to manage their own grief, loss and stress associated with working in a palliative setting. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 2016 - Health Variations 3 - Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online or  4693 - Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692  Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the palliative care principals when assessing, planning, and supporting the holistic physical, psychological, cultural, social, and spiritual needs of a person with life limiting conditions across the lifespan
Examine the delivery of comprehensive person-centred care across a variety of settings utilising the multidisciplinary team to provide coordinated care for palliative people, their families and carers. 
Evaluate strategies to support palliative people, families and carers in their role in palliative and end of life care provision including, loss and grief support services
Adapt to a dynamic and constantly changing healthcare environment when facilitating collaborative and ethical decision making about the provision of palliative nursing care and support advanced care planning
Communicate effectively when interacting with a palliative person, their family and carers, in a palliative care context Subject Content A palliative approach, general and specialist palliative care. Who requires palliative care?
Models and Domains of palliative care.
Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice
Ethical principles of palliative nursing; autonomy, beneficence,
Legal aspects of palliative care nursing; Advanced care planning, substitute decision maker (Case Study).
Communication – effective communication (paraphrase, validate etc), difficult conversations (communicating to people under stress, communicating with people in pain) and caring for families.
Palliative care settings – How setting effect care, expectations & experience of family/patient.
Interdisciplinary teams in palliative care
Cultural considerations in palliative care
Death, dying and grief responses.
Managing pain effectively (pain assessment with people who may have limited communication, & palliative care for children)
Symptom Management: Case study
Compassion fatigue, burnout, and resilience Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes each x 2 30 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 2 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 minutes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Cris Algoso Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Melanie Bingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)