Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1042 Sustainable Materials and Smart Manufacturing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301288 Coordinator James Berry Opens in new window Description In this subject we explore the circular 'Cradle to Cradle' design philosophy through material choice and manufacturing systems. Introduced are conventional materials, smart materials, and manufacturing systems within an ecological assessment framework, equipping designers with the tools to select and assess materials and manufacturing processes appropriate to use. Students undertake a life cycle materials research project and a design for manufacture (DFM) project in the context of emergent Industry 4.0 principles. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1032 Sustainable Design Materials Technology ENGR 1031 Sustainable Design 1 Materials Technology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the stages involved, and associated environmental and social impacts of contemporary materials processing and manufacturing
Identify and describe how the properties of materials relate to contemporary manufacturing processes
Use knowledge of materials properties and manufacturing processes in selecting suitable materials to meet a simple (closed) design brief for a physical artefact and to justify the selection
Describe potential applications of new and emerging materials and processes in the circular economy and Industry 4.0 framework Subject Content 1. Introduction to the product manufacturing processes of plastics, metals, wood products, glass, plastic composites and smart materials
2. Material finishes and coatings
3. Material selection and specification for product design
4. Material aesthetics and personalities
5. Sustainable material selection, specification and comparison
6. Life cycle analysis using material library tools
7. Design for manufacturing and assembly
8. Simulating plastic forming through making
9. Introduction to Industry 4.0 for manufactured material accreditation and tracking Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 x 30 Minutes 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Mould simulation - 3 page report 40 N Individual N  Applied Project Design proposal:
10 page diagrammatic visual design 

Report  
(500 words)
 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact James Berry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Design Management and Entrepreneurship, Major (0081) Eco-Socially Conscious Design and Manufacturing, Minor (0310) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Responsible Design and Sustainability, Minor (0087)