Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3001 Advanced Engineering Topic 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300666 Coordinator Ali Hellany Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the opportunity to tackle challenging engineering problems. They will study advanced topics in selected areas under the supervision of academics. The advanced topics will prepare students for further study and research. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3666 Bachelor of Engineering (Advanced) or 3690 Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) and must have a program GPA equal to or greater than 5.5. Students should have successfully completed 160 credit points to be able to study the advanced engineering topics in the subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an ability to apply the knowledge learned in the first 2 years of study to a specific area of interest;
Demonstrate an ability to tackle a challenging problem in a particular area with limited supervision;
Demonstrate an ability to communicate effectively;
Demonstrate technical competence in a particular area in engineering. Subject Content Lectures for introducing the requirements of this subject;
Self-motivated study in specific topics. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 3,000 words 65 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)