Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 2005 Human Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101676 Coordinator Nicole Traynor Opens in new window Description Human Learning is concerned with the experimental analysis of human and animal behaviour and focuses upon associative learning, including classical conditioning, operant conditioning, and social learning approaches.  Definitions, assumptions, and basic phenomena associated with the study of learning are described and evaluated in terms of their ability to account for various aspects of human behaviour and experience.  The practical work highlights important concepts introduced in the lecture program and focuses upon practical techniques of use in everyday situations. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Identify the basic principles of associative learning and social learning theory (APAC Graduate Attribute 1.1i, 1.1v, 1.3) 2. Use basic principles of associative learning and social learning theory to modify behaviour to bring it into line with stated goals (APAC GA 1.1v, 1.2, 1.5) 3. Describe the therapeutic techniques derived from learning theory (APAC GA 1.1iv, 1.1v) 4. Record a target behaviour, explain and defend the method used, and evaluate whether it appropriately quantifies the identified target behaviour (APAC GA 1.2, 1.3, 1.6) 5. Apply basic principles of associative learning and social learning theory to new situations and identify how these principles might work (APAC GA 1.1v, 1.3, 1.5) 6. Summarise the ideas of associative learning and social learning theories and explain how they can be differentiated from other similar concepts (APAC GA 1.1v, 1.3, 1.5, 1.6) Subject Content Lectures Pavlovian to Instrumental transfer 
Paradigms in the investigation of learning 
Habituation and sensitization 
Pavlovian conditioning 1: The basics 
Pavlovian conditioning 2: Connectionism and learning 
Pavlovian conditioning 3: Applications 
Operant conditioning 1: The basics 
Operant conditioning 2: Reinforcement and punishment 
Operant conditioning 3: Behavioural economics and choice 
Learning and abnormal behaviour 
Behaviour modification, behaviour therapy, and cognitive behaviour therapy 
Learning and addiction 
Learning and effective study methods Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,250 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 2 minute video presentation 30 N Group N  Quiz 4 short quizzes submitted through vUWS 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 90 minutes 20 N Individual N  Quiz Short quiz at the end of each tutorial 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Nicole Traynor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Nicole Traynor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Nicole Traynor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nicole Traynor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)