Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2054 Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description Explore the art and technology of animation and visual effects as applied to digital screen media production. In this unit, you will be introduced to the principles of animation and compositing and learn how to create effective motion sequences integrated with sound. Working with commercial software, you will explore the unique possibilities of animation and visual effects production and experiment with alternative, creative, narrative storytelling approaches. Develop critical, conceptual and practical skills within the context of animation and visual effects which will then enable you to deliver powerful and compelling visual stories on multiple media platforms. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2031 - Principles of Non-Linear Editing COMM 2008 - Animation and Visual Effects COMM 2042 - Visual Effects COMM 2051 - Animation and Visual Effects VISU 2007 - Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC) Restrictions Students enrolled in the combined Diploma/Bachelor programs must pass all College Preparatory subjects listed in the program structure before progressing to the Year Two units. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of current trends and processes of animation and visual effects in relation to digital screen media production.
Apply and critique the use of animation and visual effects in such a way to creatively produce relevant solutions to specific concept and design requirements.
Create, record and manipulate material for short form animation and visual effects production.
Demonstrate relevant technical and software skills in relation to animation and digital effects production. These include green screen studio technical and safety procedures and software training in relevant Adobe Creative Suite applications.
Assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 quizzes, 10 questions per quiz 10 N Individual N  Applied Project Up to 30 seconds 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words equivalent 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Up to 5 minutes 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication (exit only) (7043) Diploma in Communication Extended - Screen Media (Arts and Production) (7150) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Visual Arts and Crafts (VISU)