Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7034 TESOL Project Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102337 Coordinator Adrijana Tomovic Opens in new window Description This subject is the final component in the Master of Arts in TESOL course. Equipped with knowledge and research skills developed in previous course components, students undertake independent and guided research activities and propose pedagogical solutions to specific TESOL classroom situations. Students will demonstrate the practical application of this research by undertaking a TESOL project which culminates in a 12,000-15,000 word research report or teaching proposal. Students have the opportunity to research specific TESOL interests in depth. These include, but are not limited to, generic Applied Linguistics, Task-Based Language Teaching, English as a Foreign Language (EFL), Second Language Acquisition, Second or Other Language Maintenance, English for Academic Purposes (EAP), or discrete elements of Pedagogy. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7140 AND
LANG 7033 AND
LANG 7031 AND
TEAC 7044 AND
LANG 7023 AND
TEAC 7076 AND Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge gained in 10 previous subjects in the Master of Arts in TESOL. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically read and review research literature in the field of their research
Compile a literature review of the field of their research
Apply independent research skills
Analyse, compile and evaluate findings
Prepare and present a research report
Select and implement relevant research methods in a practical teaching project. Subject Content This will vary according to the field of practice and topic of research. All students will prepare a proposal and a final research-based report. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words + 20 minute presentation 25 N Individual Y  Report 10,000 - 12,000 words 75 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Adrijana Tomovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Adrijana Tomovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts in TESOL (1800)