Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 7004 Advanced Power Quality Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301025 Coordinator Ali Hellany Opens in new window Description This subject is to introduce students to power quality phenomena such as voltage sag/swell, distortions, unbalance, and flicker that occur in power systems. The subject also introduces terms and definitions associated with power quality, following which each phenomenon, that is, voltage sag/swell, transient overvoltage, and harmonics. In addition, flicker is presented and discussed in detail for students to understand the sources and impact of these occurrences on power system as well as typical mitigation techniques. Finally, students are introduced to power quality benchmarking, monitoring, assessment. In addition Advanced knowledge on network frequency responses is presented. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3693 Master of Engineering, 3695 Graduate Certificate in Engineering or the Master of Research. Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to be familiar with basic power system calculations including balanced and unbalanced three-phase systems. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and classify power quality disturbances, their causes, and their impact on electrical equipment.
Apply Australian and international codes and standards to Power quality analysis as well as describe the terminology used in power quality engineering.
Review the types of hardware and test software tools available for use in power quality investigations.
Plan a power quality investigation, examine recorded data, and diagnose specific power quality problems.
Recommend appropriate mitigation techniques for power quality problems in proposed or existing designs.
Evaluate power quality problems and document your finding via a written report. Subject Content 1. Power-Quality Standards
2. Voltage Distortion
3. Harmonics and Inter-harmonics
4. Harmonic Current Sources
5. Power Harmonic Filters
6. Methods for Correction of Power-Quality Problems
7. Power Quality Events
8. Power Quality Measurements
9. Advanced Power quality analysis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation No more than 3000 words 35 N Individual Y  Report No more than 5000 words. 65 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical and Telecommunication, Testamur Major (T113) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)