Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2005 Appendicular Skeleton Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300898 Coordinator Manisha Dayal Opens in new window Description This musculoskeletal subject builds on the basic anatomy taught during the first year, offering a regional study of the human upper and lower limbs, including their respective girdles. Emphasis is placed on the identification and description of the structures, including the correlation of structure and function. Cadaveric specimens are used to aid the learning of these regions and their three-dimensional aspect, including the anatomical variation found in these regions. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1013 OR
NATS 1001 Equivalent Subjects NATS 2029 - The Appendicular Skeleton LGYA 5937 - The Appendicular Skeleton Incompatible Subjects BIOS 1015 - Functional Anatomy Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3673 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3682 Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced), 3733 Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) or 6002 Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science. Students must also have a laboratory coat in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise anatomical structures on cadaveric material, models and other graphic resources to understand the structure of the upper and lower limbs.
Explain the functional anatomy of the upper & lower limbs, including their girdles.
Discuss the embryological development of the early & final stages of the upper & lower limbs, the process of rotation and the consequences there of.
Describe and identify common abnormalities in both the upper & lower limbs as a result of developmental anomalies.
Recognize the range of normal anatomical variation within the upper & lower limbs including identification on cadaveric material. Subject Content 1. Bones of the upper & lower limbs
2. Brachial, lumbar & sacral plexuses
3. Muscles of the shoulder region, arm, forearm & hand
4. Muscles of the gluteal region, thigh, leg & foot
5. Innervations of the upper & lower limbs
6. Vasculature of the upper & lower limbs
7. Embryological development of the upper & lower limbs
8. Surface anatomy of the upper & lower limbs Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Anatomy Induction Module Up to 30 minutes 0 Y Individual   Written Assignment Up to 1000 words` 20 N Individual   Intra-Semester Test 1 1 hour 20 N Individual   Intra-Semester Test 2 1 hour 20 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)