Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1034 Management of Aquatic Environments (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700297 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the physical, chemical and biological nature of water systems and the linkages to human activity. These linkages include a development of an appreciation of the essential services and broad uses and values of water in modern human society, and the natural environment. Students are challenged to examine the causes and effects of water pollution and environmental degradation. Students are introduced to scientific water sampling, analysis and reporting of water quality and pollution. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1027 Management of Aquatic Environments
BIOS 1028 Management of Aquatic Environments Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: List and compare and contrast the physical, chemical and biological components of a freshwater system;
Design an experiment to measure the condition of a freshwater system using physical chemical and biological indicators.
Discuss the potential risk to human health from exposure to degraded aquatic environments.
Assess impacts of human development on the ecological health of freshwater aquatic environments;
Recommend management strategies for improved freshwater environmental management.
Explain the concept and principles of Ecologically Sustainable Development.
Demonstrate competencies in written and oral communication, teamwork, experimental design, information literacy and data processing. Subject Content 1.The role of water in modern society
2.Water as a renewable resource
3.Demands of human activity on waterways
4.Ecosystems and waterways
5.Disposal of waste using waterways
6.Water pollution and its causes
7.Water quality and recreation
8.Government policy and regulation of water
9.Water sample collection
10.Laboratory analysis of water chemistry and biology
11.Communication and teamwork
12.Designing and delivering an oral presentation
13.Interpretation of water quality data
14.Use of field water quality meters Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students who opt to enrol in this subject are strongly recommended to obtain a Tetanus vaccination/booster. Students who cannot evidence vaccination may be precluded from activities on the Farm, and/or internships with third parties. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report (2500 words)

1000-1500 words to adequately answer questions, evaluate, and solve problems

  50 N Individual N  Log/Workbook (Should include two tables and up to six graphs) 20 N Individual N  Case Study 1000-1500 words to adequately answer questions, evaluate, and solve problems 20 N Individual N  Presentation (15 minutes

20 minutes oral delivery, poster preparation 10 N Group N Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in Science (exit only) (7084) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)