Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2054 Japanese 204: Speaking and Listening Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102804 Coordinator Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window Description This subject is undertaken concurrently with, or after, Japanese 203. It is designed to further develop and expand speaking and listening skills on the basis of grammatical structure introduced in Japanese 203 and increase the range of communicative transactions developed in Japanese 202 so that more sophisticated exchanges are possible when stating a plan or intention, making a suggestion, offering advice, indicating the degree of certainty, describing a change in state, indicating causes, using the passive and the imperative, etc. This subject will also present further aspects of contemporary Japanese culture and society. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Japanese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School). NOTE: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Japanese are encouraged to enrol in Japanese 203 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2031 - Language Communication Skills 2B Japanese LANG 2027 - Japanese 204 Assumed Knowledge Japanese 201 and 202 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes Carry out conversation in such areas as stating a plan or intention, making a suggestion in the plain form, offering advice, indicating degree of certainty, describing a change in state, indicating causes, using the passive and the imperative.
Conduct a small research project and present the finding in oral and written Japanese on such topics as Japanese culture, customs and cross-cultural communication between Japan and Australia.
Use basic grammatical structures and vocabulary to carry out the exchanges stated above.
Demonstrate understanding of Japanese linguistic, pragmatic and cultural considerations when using Japanese. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project Equivalent to 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours maximum  40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)