Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 3014 Property Development Process Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200874 Coordinator Za Manaf Opens in new window Description In this unit, students critically evaluate the property development process, from the initial development concept through to the end-use of completed development projects. Consideration is given to the implications of the property development process and development decisions from the viewpoints of developers, end users, financiers, public authorities and the community. Students acquire a theoretical understanding of the property development process, development appraisal techniques including financial and feasibility aspects, as well as an understanding of how to apply these techniques to a property scenario. Planning issues are also critically examined. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 7468 Property Development MKTG 3012 Property Development Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students will have a sound knowledge of valuation practices and principles, economic theory and town planning principles. Learning Outcomes Outline the holistic process of property development;
Critically evaluate the property development process and its key phases and stages ? from initial development concept through to the end-use of completed development projects;
Analyse the roles of all relevant industry stakeholders who, in various groups and combinations, occupy vital positions within the property development process;
Discuss the implications of the property development process and development decisions from the viewpoints and objectives of developers, end-users, financiers, public authorities, and the community;
Interpret and describe various aspects of a financial appraisal and provide advice regarding the financial feasibility, or otherwise, of a development scheme;
Analyse and discuss various contemporary issues relevant to the property development industry. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building Surveying, Testamur Major (T088) Property, Testamur Major (T047) Quantity Surveying, Testamur Major (T087) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)