Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 7006 Advanced Thermal and Fluid Engineering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301021 Coordinator Mariam Darestani Opens in new window Description This subject covers fundamental principles in the thermal and fluid engineering. While the main focus will remain on incompressible fluids, effects of compressible fluids will also be discussed.  The contents of this subject include fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and heat transfer. Students will learn the engineering applications of thermal and fluid principles. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Fundamental knowledge of fluid mechanics, theory of thermodynamics, knowledge of heat transfer including conduction, convection. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply fundamental knowledge of fluid kinematics and dynamics to solve problems in the fluid engineering.
Apply the energy equation to solve the energy and mass flow.
Analyse the thermodynamics process and heat transfer of a system.
Apply heat transfer principles to the design and evaluation of industrial device.
Evaluate heat engine and refrigeration cycles using the thermodynamics principles. Subject Content 1. Fluid statics and kinematics
2. Steady incompressible flow in pressurised pipe system
3. Forces on bodies immerged in fluid flow
4. Laws of thermodynamics
5. Energy analysis
6. Fundamental mechanisms of heat transfer Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2500-word practical report 25 N Individual Y  Report 2500-word written report 25 N Individual Y  Quiz 1-hour closed book 25 N Individual Y  Quiz 1-hour closed book 25 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ming Zhao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical and Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T112) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036)