Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7147 Play, Health and Wellbeing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102104 Coordinator Azadeh Motevali Zadeh Ardakani Opens in new window Description Play provides a foundation for children’s holistic health, wellbeing, learning and relationships. This subject engages students in a critical inquiry of children’s play and its pedagogical potential to facilitate engagement in learning and complex interactions.  Developmental, cultural, and critical theories of play will be interrogated to enhance understanding of the value and relevance of play in both early childhood and school settings. Play-based pedagogies aligned with The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia, the Australian Curriculum and NSW Personal Development, Health and Physical Education curriculum, and national and state health promotion initiatives are used to assess and plan for children’s emerging play, relationships, movement, health and wellbeing. Students will examine children’s rights, agency and abilities within multiple play contexts, and the influence of community and families’ diverse values and cultural practices, on play opportunities that promote active and healthy ways of being. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7085 Play development and learning Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1708 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth -12), 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) or 6017 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12). Students enrolled in 6017 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) must have successfully completed 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher). Students enrolled in 1708 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth -12) must have successfully completed 160 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the importance of play for children’s holistic health, wellbeing and relationships from birth-to-12 years.  
Interrogate the developmental, cultural, and critical theoretical perspectives of play and their implications for teachers in early childhood and school settings. 
Critically analyse children’s rights, agency and abilities within multiple play contexts, and the influence of community and families’ diverse values, and cultural practices on play opportunities. 
Plan for children’s holistic health and wellbeing aligning with the Early Years Learning Framework for Australia, Australian Curriculum and NSW Personal Development, Health and Physical Education curriculum, and health promotion policies and initiatives. 
Design learning experiences using play-based pedagogies that scaffold play, and promote health, movement and relationships.
Propose collaborative approaches to promote children’s healthy, safe and active life in early childhood, community and school-settings Subject Content Inherent Requirements Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 Years / Birth -12 Years).
The Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 Years / Birth – 12 Years) Inherent Requirements have been approved by Disability Services. The Inherent Requirements are currently available in the WSU Inherent Requirements website: https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/ir/inherent_requirements/inherent_requirements_for_teaching_courses_postgraduate/master_of_teaching_birth_to_5_yearsbirth_to_12_years Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words
 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Prathyusha Sanagavarapu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Prathyusha Sanagavarapu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Azadeh Motevali Zadeh Ardakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Azadeh Motevali Zadeh Ardakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Azadeh Motevali Zadeh Ardakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Education Studies (Birth - 5/Birth - 12), Major (0156) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)