Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5026 Music Curriculum 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102879 Coordinator Peter Calvert Opens in new window Description This subject in Music curriculum, explores in greater depth pedagogical content knowledge established in Music Curriculum 1, including general capabilities, cross-curriculum priorities and other allied materials. They will critique their prior knowledge and experience in the field and how these connect with the scope of the curriculum, identifying opportunities, challenges and responsibilities of Music teaching. Pre-service teachers will explore extended theoretical frameworks associated with teaching and learning in Music education. They will learn evidence-based approaches to plan for effective teaching and learning, including embedded literacy and numeracy, and the use of digital technologies. They will learn approaches for engaging learners and to meet the learning needs of diverse students. They will learn to compose good questions, arrange music compositions and analyse music forms and concepts. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7027 AND
TEAC 7004 AND
TEAC 7032 Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have Music Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Evaluate a Music Education curriculum program for senior students that incorporates music solo and ensemble performance, composition, musicology, music history and aural training and music theory in a range of genre and styles. 
Analyse a variety of research-informed classroom strategies which cater for individual differences in student learning in the Music Education classroom (e.g. differences informed by cognitive, physical, socio-economic, cultural, linguistic and religious diversity) and integrate general capabilities and cross curriculum priorities, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives.
Analyse the relationships between learning task design, student learning and expertise, higher order thinking, assessment, feedback and reporting strategies and evaluation in Music Education, and apply to the development of own teaching practice 
Apply assessment strategies, to promote student learning and moderate and interpret student assessment data. 
Design and implement aural training programs, music style analyses and music performance and composition activities for senior secondary schools.
Reflect on future professional learning in Music Education. Subject Content What is the nature of the Music in the early and middle years of secondary education? 
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the subject? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2009) Music Stage 6 Syllabus. Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)