Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7034 Surgical Pathology 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401230 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401475 - Surgical Pathology of Skin, Bone and Soft Tissue. This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entity in skin and soft tissue pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology I. The first self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of these sub-specialties. The second online module will revise prior learning of the sub-specialities neuropathology, cardiorespiratory pathology, genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology. A literature review and discussion of contemporary and emerging developments in the relevant pathological entity will be conducted. This subject is designed to not only re-inforce/revise the above topics, but to harness effective communication and analytical research skills and to understand the importance of professional development. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Assumed Knowledge A basic undergraduate level knowledge in Pathology and microscopy skills is expected, as the candidates will have a MBBS or equivalent pre-requisite degree. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine and interpret advanced diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialties of skin and soft tissue pathology
Identify common and uncommon disease entities in skin and soft tissue pathology, including the diagnosis of non-neoplastic, benign and malignant entities
Use research skills to investigate disease entities in skin and soft tissue pathology to reach the correct diagnosis
Report pathological findings using written and oral communication skills to patients, other health professional and related stakeholders, with application of analytical research skills where necessary to form appropriate conclusions and recommendations regarding further clinical management
Exemplify the behaviour required to create a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by pathologists Subject Content 1. Skin pathology
2. Soft tissue pathology
3. Analytical research skills (Literature review assessment item) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Skin and Soft Tissue Pathology Diagnostic Case Studies (Online task) 20 cases: 300-500 words each S/U Y Individual   Literature Review 2500 word limit 50 Y Individual   Histopathology Case Reports  10 cases: 300-500 words each 50 Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)