Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 4006 Professional Design Experience: The Individual Practitioner Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102280 Coordinator Leo Robba Opens in new window Description Students will continue to work in the Burrow studio, but in this subject they are positioned as a junior designer who is working individually in response to a range of briefs with their tutor as Creative Director. Students will develop their capacity to manage projects independently from briefing, research, development, costing, and pitching. Through this capstone subject, students will also develop a self-promotion strategy, and increase their understanding of a range of professional practice issues as they relate to the individual practitioner, further preparing them for the industry. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 4007 Restrictions Successful completion of 240 credit points in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Further develop professional standards of communication and conduct in relation to working with colleagues, supervisors, clients, and suppliers
Identify and use relevant research methodologies to inform understanding of target audience and develop appropriate concepts for client-driven briefs
Practise industry-standard methods of project management, pitching, costing, delivery as an individual practitioner
Engage with a variety of design development and production processes that lead to appropriate finished outcomes
Develop a design portfolio and self-promotion strategy for industry presentation. Subject Content 1. Online material that cover professional practice issues such as design ethics, project management, professional communication
2. Resources and activities that introduce students to practical issues such as costing, invoicing, negotiation, pay rates
3. Field work as relevant to the brief (e.g. site visits, online research, attendance of meetings/events) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Written and visual work equivalent to 2,000 words. 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio Visual work equivalent to 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Leo Robba Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic and Design (DESN)