Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4010 Major Project Completion Credit Points 30 Legacy Code 300460 Coordinator Jean Payette Opens in new window Description Major Project Completion is the project realisation component of the student's final year program. The subject offers the student the chance to consolidate the range of methodologies and processes developed and evaluated in Major Project Commencement, that contextualise the principles and practices that will lead to the realisation of their identified design solution. The final design outcome will form part of the final year graduate exhibition. The design solution which students will be developing and submitting for this subject responds to the design brief developed in Major Project Commencement. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 30cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 4009 Restrictions Students must hav completed Industrial Design/Engineering Workshop Safety Training. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge related to the successful completion of Year 3 Industrial Design is assumed and successful completion of Major Project Commencement. Learning Outcomes Plan, manage and report on an in-depth design investigation.
Craft an exhibition standard presentation model.
Produce detailed industry-standard technical specifications for the manufacture and assembly or production of their design solution.
Generate engaging, professional graphic communications that explain their design solutions to a wide audience.
Present and defend a logical argument for the novelty, sensitivity/ appropriateness and feasibility of a design solution supported by scholarly and practical research and conceptual exploration and development to a wide audience.
Communicate how design decisions were arrived at with a detailed visual process diary and concept development models.
Prove the structural and/or mechanical integrity and manufacturability of any physical design solutions. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project A4 x 5 page written document 10 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1 x A3 Process Diary (50 pages), 1 x A3 set of draft engineering drawings, 1 x exploratory physical model (scale 1:1) 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1 x A3 Final set of engineering drawings to AS1100, 1 x 3D CAD model, 1 x presentation model (scale 1:1), 1 x Powerpoint audio visual presentation (5 slides), 1 x A3 Graphic communication 60 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)