Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3014 Arabic 306: Arabic Novel and Short Story Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100052 Coordinator Eva Melhem Opens in new window Description This is an optional subject in the Arabic major, which aims to introduce students to the study of the Arabic novel and short story, and examines the historical, political, social and cultural context that this literature reflects. This will be done by studying selected novels and short stories. Students will be able to undertake a research project on a novel of their choice. This subject will also examine children's literature, including traditional children’s stories and contemporary Arabic literature, as well as translated Western traditional stories. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Arabic 204 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key aspects of the historical, social and cultural context in which the modern Arabic novel, short story and play developed;
Identify the key characteristics of modern Arabic prose, especially in novels and short stories;
Analyse selected Arabic novels in terms of language, style and cultural context;
Evaluate Arabic literature for children and compare it with similar literature in other languages. Subject Content The historical, social and cultural context in which the Arabic novel and short story developed; and the impact of the political climate on the content of the novel and short story, especially the war situation in Lebanon, Iraq, Kuwait and Palestine and the influence of this on Arabic literature.
Study of selected short stories and novels.
Study of children's literature: themes, language, style, moral messages, graphics and presentation. Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review Essay: 1500-2000 words; Oral presentation: 10 min 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 2000 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Participation 1 hour weekly 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Eva Melhem Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Eva Melhem Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)