Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 1010 Human Services Intervention Strategies (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500045 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description This is an introductory subject which examines underlying theories of social welfare work, community work, youth work and international social development. Students will explore the ideological underpinnings of theories and discourses in the human services, particularly with regard to the impact of poverty, inequity and the experience of vulnerable populations. The contribution of other disciplines to knowledge and practice in these fields of practice will also be examined. This subject will focus on developing beginning assessment and intervention skills in working with individuals, groups, and communities. Students will also develop an understanding of ethical issues related to social work. Students will also develop an understanding of working in human service organisations as a member of a team. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Welfare Studies and Services, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects WELF 1003 - Human Services Intervention Strategies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7170 - Undergraduate Certificate in Mental Health and Counselling. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe theories, concepts and models underpinning social work and community welfare work.
Develop assessment and intervention skills or working with individuals, groups and communities within a context of the inequitable distribution of wealth and power.
Apply ethical issues related to working with individuals, groups and communities.
Apply professional decision making in the organisational contexts. Subject Content Basic concepts underlying human service practice: Human Rights; Empowerment; Advocacy; Self-determination; Self-help; Social Justice; Democratic Participation.
Anti-Oppressive Practice: gender; ethnicity; class; politics; Aboriginality; culture; religion; (dis)ability; age; sexual orientation.
Theories underlying human services practice: different ways of understanding the world; different levels of theory: formal and informal.
Working with individuals; an overview major models of casework; assessment and intervention.
Working with groups: types of groups facilitated by human service workers; principles of working for and with groups; group dynamics and group processes; stages of group development.
Community Work.
Iissues related to accountability: the inter relationship of the worker?fs personal, professional values and those of their agency; understanding of ethics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 quizzes – 20 minutes per quiz 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 3 posts 
250 words per post = 750
 20 N Individual N  Case Study Part A: 750 (20%)

Part B: 1000 (30%)
 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health (7170)