Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 4001 Integrated Clinical Rotations 2 Credit Points 80 Legacy Code 400811 Coordinator Phillipa Hay Opens in new window Description This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). Integrated Clinical Rotations 2 is the second major clinical year of the MB BS program.  It consists of 9 weeks in each of Paediatrics, Obstetrics & Gynaecology and Mental Health and four weeks in each of Oncology/Palliative Care and Community Research. There will also be 2 weeks of "Year 4 Campus Learning". These will be one week each and held at either Campbelltown Campus or Blacktown Clinical School.  During the year, students will be based at a number of appropriate hospitals throughout Sydney, Bathurst and Lismore.  Students will also undertake 3 online learning modules (Scientific Streams).  Students will complete a reflective portfolio. Slight variations in the delivery of ICR2 occur in the Rural clinical schools. Learning outcomes & assessment requirements do not differ.The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 3003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4641 Bachelor of Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Provides patient centred care as a member of an interdisciplinary team under appropriate supervision; Communication, Patient Assessment, Patient Management.
Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia; Determinant of Health and Illness, Health Needs, Health Care Systems, Health Promotion, Indigenous Health.
Demonstrates and develops professional skills, responsibilities and attitudes; Ethical Practice, Teamwork, Learning and Teaching, Personal Needs, Medical humanities.
Develops and applies a sound understanding of the scientific foundations (social, basic and clinical) of medical practice; Applies Science to Practice, Uses Evidence, Research. Subject Content Integrated Clinical Rotation 2 (ICR 2) consists of three 9-week attachments in each of Mental Health, Paediatrics, Obstetrics & Gynaecology and two 4-week attachments in Community Research and Oncology, in addition to two Campus Learning weeks. 1. Obstetrics & Gynaecology 2. Mental health - discuss and describe (at the level of an undifferentiated practitioner) the assessment, aetiology, epidemiology, classification, phenomenology, medical and psychological co-morbidities, prognosis and management of the following psychiatric problems: 3. Paediatrics - students will be prepared for encounters, in their early postgraduate years, with children. 4. Community Research
The Community Research (CR) rotation aligns with the broader goals of the School of Medicine to improve the health of communities in Greater Western Sydney and other under-served areas through education and research. The aim of the rotation is to extend students' previous learning on research skills such as; literature review, critical appraisal, biostatistics, quantitative and qualitative research and 
evidence-based medicine by supporting the student in undertaking research that investigates the relationships between determinants of health, access to healthcare and health outcomes. 5. Scientific Streams
There will be two PPD activities in ICR2: For the ethics case presentation and analysis, students are required to present a case with significant ethical issues to their colleagues and facilitate a group discussion on ethical reasoning in medical practice. This activity will take place in the Obstetrics and Gynaecology attachment and focus on ethical issues arising within this discipline, as well as neonatal medicine and infancy. The learning journal will be developed during 6 consecutive weeks of one of the attachments. Students are expected to record and critically analyse their clinical experiences, aiming to document the improvement of their practice and development as a medical professional. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you
1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one
2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history
3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements
4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as • If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements
• If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements.
• NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire program.
• Other non-health related requirements. Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance OSCE 6 stations; 2 Written Case Presentations 1,500-2,000 words each; Professional placement logbook (incl. Mini-CEX) S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance OSCE 5 stations; Case Study Minimum 1,500 words; Multiple choice questions 1.5 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Mental Health Multi-Station Assessment (MHMSA) 6 stations 90 minutes; Essay Maximum 3,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Report Group Project Plan 2-3 pages; Group Final Report 2,500 to 4,000 words S/U Y Group Y  Quiz Throughout the Year S/U Y Individual Y  Essay Learning Journal 8 weeks; Essay 1,500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task Over the whole length of attachment S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Over the whole length of attachment S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Phillipa Hay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Phillipa Hay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)