Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7022 Investigating Second Language Acquisition Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100919 Coordinator Stacey Sherwood Opens in new window Description This subject is intended for Linguistics Honours students as well as TESOL and Interpreting and Translation Postgraduate students aiming to provide a focused theoretical and research framework in the area of second language acquisition (SLA) from a psycholinguistic viewpoint. This subject widens the theoretical and methodological basis of students intending to undertake further studies and/or research in the Linguistics and SLA area and also serves the TESOL and languages teachers interested in applying SLA-based knowledge to language learning, pedagogy and classroom research. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 3375 - Investigating Second Language Acquisition Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of a LOTE and/or some Linguistics and/or some language teaching experience. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Provide an overview of the recent history of second language acquisition as shaped by early studies based on contrastive analysis, error analysis and the concept of interlanguage
Critically appraise current studies, theoretical models and methodologies adopted in the investigation of second language acquisition.
Identify individual and social factors purported to have a role in the successful acquisition of a second language in both natural and classroom settings.
Demonstrate the developmental and variational dimensions of language acquisition as envisaged, for instance, by Processability Theory and apply this knowledge to profiling of learner language. 
Critically appraise the “Teachability Hypothesis'' and current L2 pedagogy including communicative language teaching and 'focus on form'.
Design and conduct a small-scale project investigating some aspect of second language acquisition or L2 instruction, or Interpreting and Translation skills learning and pedagogy.
Use computer-aided linguistic corpus analysis as a research tool. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 45 mins each 40 N Individual N  Report report: 2000-3000 words
research proposal: 1500 - 2000 words 60 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Stacey Sherwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Diploma in TESOL (1801) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Arts in TESOL (1800) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)