Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 1006 Protected Cropping Biosecurity and Pollination Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301214 Coordinator Lihua Li Opens in new window School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify invertebrate pests and plant pathogens, common to greenhouse and protected cropping systems, and their implications for quarantine, biosecurity and integrated pest and disease management (IPDM)
Describe interactions between pests, diseases and their hosts in a closed climate controlled environment, including their impact on yield and economic costs
Discuss the types of pollination and pollinators, comparing Australian legislation and practices against international protected cropping systems
Explain the importance of pest economic thresholds, population dynamics, and pesticide resistance in relational to biological, chemical and mechanical control strategies
Develop a chemical control plan for a protected cropping scenario including identification of chemical classifications, application methods, withholding periods and PPE & WHS
Use National standards and industry best practice protocols to plan and oversee an emergency pest and disease control program. Subject Content 1. Introduction to low, medium and high-tech protected cropping environments. Familiarisation with the unique challenges, biosecurity issues (nationally and on-farm) and pollination services specific to Australian protected cropping.
2. Identification of invertebrate pests including monitoring and economic costs in protected cropping environments.
3. Identification of plant diseases, crop destruction for quarantine purposes and safe re-establishment of production in closed growing environments.
4. Biological pest control techniques, technologies and research specific to protected cropping.
5. PLANTPLAN, Nationally Agreed Standard Operating Procedures (NASOP) and current legislation used to plan and oversee an emergency disease or plant pest control program
6. Chemical pest and disease control, legislation, WHS and PPE.
7. Pesticide resistance in Australia and internationally, commercial crop disease-tolerant packages and their economic advantages and costs.
8. Pollinators suitable to protected cropping and climate controlled horticulture. Alternative pollinators and Australia specific pollinators.
9. Pollination types and mechanisms. Pollination case studies and emerging research opportunities. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio - A collection of evidence for weekly learning achievements. 1000 words or equivalent  30 N Individual   Professional Task - Professional documentation 1500 words or equivalent  30 Y Individual   Presentation  10 minutes 20 N Group   Final Quiz - online 2 hours 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT)