Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 1002 Introduction to International Relations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101956 Coordinator Margaret Hanlon Opens in new window Description In 2022, this subject is replaced by POLI 1007 World Politics and International Relations. This is a foundation subject for the major in International Relations and Asian Studies. As such, this subject will introduce students to key topics and debates in the field of International Relations (IR). The subject will familiarise students with leading IR theories and their explanation of political events, phenomena, and processes which cross the territorial boundaries of the state. Students will be exposed to the interplay between power, interest, ideas, identity, and resistance, in explaining continuity and change in international relations. The subject is designed to provide students with the analytical tools and intellectual frameworks needed to understand the behaviour of different international actors in contemporary global affairs. School Humanities & Comm Arts Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects POLI 1003 - Introduction to International Relations (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the main actors in world politics
Describe the major evolutions in the history of international politics
Demonstrate knowledge of the intimate linkages between 'domestic' and 'international' politics
Show an understanding of the main IR theories and the assumptions implicit in each of these different ways of looking at the world
Identify multiple perspectives on International Relations
Interpret current policy debates and international trends
Evaluate solutions to dominant policy-making problems in world politics. Subject Content . History of International Relations (IR) theory
. Main theoretical approaches to the study of IR
. Non-Western perspectives on the study of IR
. Non-anthropocentric/post-human approaches to the study of IR
. Key concepts in the study of IR
. Leading actors in world politics
. Ethics of global affairs
. Conflict and cooperation in international affairs
. The role and consequences of international organisations
. International regimes, international law, and global governance in world politics
. Shift from 'inter-national' to 'inter-regional' relations
. The link between 'domestic' and 'international' politics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Tutorial Exercises 500 words 30 N Individual   Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual   Take-home exam 1000 words 30 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of International Studies (1658) Bachelor of International Studies (Dean's Scholars) (1739) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business (1820) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Social Science (1807) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Human Rights, Protection and Development, Major (0095) Humanitarian and Development Studies, Major (0332) International Relations and Asian Studies, Major (0019) Political Science and Policy (POLI)