Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1041 The Developing Child (Block) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500071 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description An in-depth knowledge of child development is essential for educators to plan and provide culturally and developmentally appropriate practices for children in the early years. In this context, this subject aims to explore the diverse nature, processes and aspects of children’s development from conception to 12 years of age. The subject investigates the physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains of development. Students will gather an understanding of the evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research. The role of family, community, and other sociocultural influences will also be considered in relation to understanding the holistic nature of children’s development.   
Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the development of a Child Portfolio. Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the development of a Child Portfolio. Students will complete Working with Children Check (WWCC) (or the equivalent in their home state), the NSW Department of Education’s online Child Protection Awareness Training and Annual update as part of the subject. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1032 - The Developing Child TEAC 1033 - The Developing Child Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7181 - Undergraduate Certificate in Early Childhood Studies Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain children’s development from conception to 12 years of age across all domains; 
Analyse the major theories and contemporary research relating to children’s development and apply theoretical understandings of child development in their learning; 
Discuss evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research;  
Demonstrate understanding of the diversity in families, cultures, environments and communities and consider the implications for children’s development, health, care and education; 
Critique developmentally and culturally appropriate practices and principles and  their implications for care and education that is responsive to needs of children and their families; 
Apply knowledge of observational and assessment techniques to the development of a child’s case study.  
Document and interpret observations using related theory and research and suggest implications for planning for children’s developments. Subject Content An overview of theories of children’s development.
Child development: history, methods and sociocultural perspectives of child development
Biological foundations of child development, prenatal development, and birth.
Child development: physical and motor development; cognitive development; language development; socio-emotional development; moral and spiritual development; creative and academic development.
Diversity in families, cultures and communities and importance of working with children, families and communities professionally and ethically.
Methods of observation, documentation and analysis of child development.
Developmentally and culturally appropriate practices for children in the early years and their application to education contexts.
Academic literacy, including analytical and reflective writing and the organisation of a child portfolio. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 questions 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz up to 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 450 words 15 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Peer Review 300 words 10 N Individual N Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC) Undergraduate Certificate in Early Childhood Studies (7181)