Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1041 Fundamentals of Biotechnology (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description In this subject you will explore the intricate world of cell and molecular biology, uncovering the foundational concepts crucial to biotechnology. You will explore the molecular building blocks of life and understand how they interact to form functional cells. You will investigate the roles played by proteins, nucleic acids, and other macromolecules in processes vital for life, like energy production, cell division, and reproduction. You will explore the realm of genetics to grasp the concepts of inheritance, genetic modification, and the pivotal roles nucleic acids and proteins have in the storage and flow of information. With a special emphasis on DNA technologies, you will discover how we can harness the biochemical processes of life for diverse applications. You will also gain insights into the transformative power of DNA technology across areas such as medicine, agriculture, food production, forensics, and environmental science, equipping yourself with knowledge of its real-world implications and innovations. School Science Discipline Biochemistry and Cell Biology Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and describe the fundamental roles of macromolecules and organelles in determining cell structure and function.
Explain the significance of cell division and the potential implications when these processes malfunction.
Explain how cells require substrates for development and energy requirements.
Identify and describe a variety of DNA and RNA technologies and their applications across a variety of fields.
Apply your understanding of molecular and cell biology to experimental methodologies.
Effectively communicate molecular cell biology concepts and findings, to professional and non-professional audiences using appropriate terminology. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 x 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 6 x 2-hour practicals including report 40 N Individual N  Presentation Up to 20 minutes/group 30 N Group N Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)