Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 2013 Advertising: Strategy Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jacki Montgomery Opens in new window Description Advertising: Strategy is a dynamic practice-oriented subject designed to teach students how to interrogate and analyse clients, brands, products, markets, and audiences in order to develop effective advertising strategies. Through discussion topics and project-based work, students will gain an understanding of the importance of brand personality and positioning, consumer insights, unique selling propositions, and how to write an advertising brief capable of generating successful campaigns. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Advertising Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MKTG 1001 OR
MKTG 1006 OR
DESN 1007 Equivalent Subjects COMM 2011 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Analyse the importance of brand positioning and strategy in successful advertising and the range of approaches undertaken to develop such strategies.
Explain key concepts including brand positioning, consumer insights, product benefits and propositions.
Conduct relevant research to reach consumer insights which then inform unique selling propositions
Consolidate research findings into a presentation and strategy document (creative brief) with potential to inspire successful campaigns.
Evaluate the benefits of integrated marketing communication plans, and how single ideas may be campaigned across different media and/or in different locations/markets.
Establish criteria for evaluation of campaigns. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 x 10 question quizzes 20 N Individual N  Presentation 5 min presentation; 500 word report5 min presentation; 500 word report 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 4,000 words 40 N Group N  Participation 5 x criteria 10 N Individual N Structures that include subject Advertising, Major (0159) Advertising, Minor (0159) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)