Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1063 Critical and Systems Thinking Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800242 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. It enables students to develop high-level critical thinking skills that are essential for life-long career success. Students engage with key theoretical frameworks and concepts in critical and systems thinking using interdisciplinary approaches to enable them to think and act outside the silos of their disciplines. Throughout the subject, students are challenged to consider how they think as opposed to how they think they think (biases and heuristics). A clear understanding of the necessity of systems thinking approaches in leadership paradigms equips students to be the leaders of tomorrow. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1036 - Introduction to Critical Thinking Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their course with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this unit. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Enrolment in the unit for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes 1. Describe critical and systems thinking theories and concepts.
2. Discuss the application of critical and systems thinking across various disciplines.
3. Analyse complex scenarios using the framework of critical systems heuristics.
4. Exhibit sound reasoning and problem-solving skills that underpin critical thinking.
5. Reflect on and evaluate assumptions, alternative points of view and related theories, morals, and principles in disciplinary settings. Subject Content 1. Critical and Systems Thinking: decision making processes, objectivity, subjectivity, and intuition.  
2. Systems 1 and 2 thinking.
3. Critical thinking methodologies: validity, reliability, and authenticity. 
4. Systems thinking frameworks.
5. Critical Thinking in interdisciplinary settings.
6. How we think vs how we think we think - biases and heuristics.
7. Critical Systems Heuristics frameworks, leadership, and complexity. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1500 words or equivalent 30 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Critical and Systems Thinking, Minor (0287) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)