Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 3018 Philosophy of Race and Racism Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102789 Coordinator Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on philosophical approaches to race and racism. Academic discourse about race sits at the intersection of overlapping research programs taking place in a number of fields including cultural anthropology, the history of science, sociology, political theory, communication studies, and critical philosophy of race. This subject will draw on discussions from a number of these fields. Students will interrogate the ways in which subjects are racialized, both by culture and by the state. They will analyse major texts concerned with race and racism, and examine and critique the role of ignorance within racist discourse. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes Apply the methodology of critical philosophers of race to interrogate and deconstruct the processes by which subjects are racialized by culture and the state.
Analyse major texts in the traditions of political phenomenology, intersectional feminist philosophy, and African American existentialism.
Use standpoint epistemology to diagnose and reframe the epistemologies of ignorance at work in racist discourse. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1500 words each 60 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)