Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2016 Hearing, Speech and Swallowing Science Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301381 Coordinator Manisha Dayal Opens in new window Description Speech Pathologists require a sound knowledge of the relevant structures and functions of the central and peripheral nervous system to be able to understand hearing, language and swallowing processes, and how disease or dysfunction affects them. This subject covers the anatomical and vascular structures of the head and neck, their development and functions, medical imaging and neural plasticity. Topics include the somatosensory systems, motor systems, and the role of the brainstem, cranial nerves, and executive systems in controlling hearing, speech, language and swallowing processes. Common congenital, degenerative and acquired neurological disorders are described. This subject will develop knowledge relevant to other subjects related to speech pathology. School Science Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1009 Co-requisite(s) NATS 1010 Incompatible Subjects NATS 3006 Anatomy of the Head Neck
NATS 3037 Neuroanatomy Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points.  Students must be enrolled in 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology or 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours ). Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of anatomical and physiological concepts as introduced in relevant first year anatomy & physiology subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and apply anatomical terminology when describing the anatomy and neuroanatomy of the head and neck regions
Describe the blood supply to the head, neck and CNS regions
Describe and explain the functional anatomy of the musculoskeletal elements of the skull; face; cervical and thoracic regions of the vertebral column; ear; nasal cavity; oral cavity; pharynx and larynx
Review the normal structures and functions of the nervous system and relate them to medical imaging, development and developmental processes
Describe and explain the normal functional roles of the brainstem, cranial nerves, and executive systems in controlling speech, hearing, language and swallowing processes, and how these change in congenital, degenerative or acquired neurological conditions Subject Content Functional gross anatomy of the head, neck and skull using cadaveric specimens and models with special emphasis on the ear, face, oral cavity, larynx, pharynx, and respiratory system
Embryological development of head, neck, brain and brainstem regions
Functional neuroanatomy of the brain, brainstem, cranial nerves, their spatial relationships with emphasis on regions associated with hearing, speech production and swallowing using cadaveric specimens, models, diagrams/images
Introduction to medical imaging techniques e.g. CT & MRI
Common congenital, degenerative and/or acquired neurological disorders that result is associated disorders of hearing, speech, and/or swallowing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Manisha Dayal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)