Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7057 Becoming an Exemplary Teacher Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101899 Coordinator Janene Rox Opens in new window Description This subject empowers aspiring educators to excel as exemplary teachers in today's educational landscape. It explores the historical and contemporary social, cultural, and political influences on early childhood and primary education. Students critically examine the evolving role of teachers, focusing on factors contributing to responsive teaching and quality learning experiences. Emphasizing inclusivity and support for learners, the subject fosters critical reflection about teaching practice to prepare students for their future roles in education. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching  program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs:
1708 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12),
6017 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12),
1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary), 
6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary),
1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years),
1784 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years),
1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary),
1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) Students enrolled in 1708 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) or 1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) must have successfully completed 160 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Students enrolled in 6017 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) or 6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) must have successfully completed 190 credit points before enrolling in this subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate what the current research literature identifies as the characteristics of an exemplary teacher.
Critique the influence of historical and current social, cultural and political factors that have shaped the role of teachers. 
Research the history and theoretical underpinnings of current Australian legislative frameworks and policy in early childhood and primary education.  
Explain the continuum of children’s learning in home, early childhood and primary school settings, and the implications for responsive practice.  
Critique a range of strategies early childhood and primary school settings use to engage families in two-way communication, learning updates, and collaborative planning and classroom management.
Use skills of reflective practice to identify and examine personal values and beliefs and consider the implications for professional and ethical practice. 
Critique the social, pedagogical and political factors critical to barriers to learning and facilitating learning for diverse learners, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners and learners from different cultural, religious and linguistic backgrounds and the implications for the role of teacher. Subject Content What it means to be an exemplary teacher: multifaceted role of teacher, advocate, professional, leader.
Critical reflection of socio-cultural and political contexts influencing teaching today: technology, global approaches to education such as OECD, diversity of Australian families and communities, diverse learning capabilities, including children with disability and the complexities of influencing education for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. 
Traditional and contemporary theoretical perspectives of early childhood education and perspectives of childhood
Australian Context - History of Early Childhood and primary school education, how are teachers perceived in the community; misconceptions and reality of being a teacher and teaching.
Australian Government Legislation influencing education policy and funding, Australian Professional Standards for Teachers- similarities between Early Childhood Educators (ECE) and primary teachers.
Education and curriculum studies:  continuity of learning from ECE to primary schooling, curriculum approaches and frameworks – EYLF; Australian Curriculum and NSW Syllabi
Teachers as researchers – understanding and engaging in research to enhance practice.
Identifying personal strengths and areas to develop, setting professional goals, becoming a lifelong learner.
Reflective practice and reflexivity; Introduction to reflection and reflexivity, writing critical reflections.
Developing personal philosophy and presentation skills for teachers Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minute presentation 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Janene Rox Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Janene Rox Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Janene Rox Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Education Studies (Birth - 5/Birth - 12), Major (0156) Education Studies – Early Childhood/Primary Teaching, Minor (0331) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)