Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7012 Cyber Justice (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102424 Coordinator David Tait Opens in new window Description This subject explores the evolving relationship between digital technology, justice and crime. How are the temptations and risks associated with harmful or illicit behaviour being re-shaped by information and communication technologies, by social media and the computer networks that increasingly hold organisations together?  Cyber crime is typically understood as use of information and communication technologies to assist in the commission of other crimes, actions that target computer networks or software, or new offences that could only exist with the technology. Cyber justice meanwhile emphasises the use of information and communication technologies to improve access to justice and the efficiency of justice procedures, not just to deal with cyber crime. How does the law keep up with the emergence of new crimes and technology-enhanced versions of old ones, and how do forensic investigators and analysts contribute to this process?  The subject examines how justice processes and spaces, as well as criminal networks and strategies, are being reimagined to take advantage of the new technologies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Previous study of cultural and social analysis, history and political thought, law, psychology or criminology would be useful, but is not required.  Experience of using social media would also be useful but not required. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and critically evaluate the nature of cybercrime (including cyber terrorism and cyber war) and the techniques, targets and harms produced by it.
Describe and critique the way cyber technologies are used in policing and courts to transform justice processes and respond to cybercrime.
Identify and evaluate relevant media reports, research material, images and other relevant sources relevant to cybercrime and cyber justice.
Analyse and interpret research about cybercrime and cyber justice in terms of its method, use of sources and contribution to academic debates.
Develop research ideas in a peer-supported learning environment.
Communicate research arguments logically and clearly in oral and written form.
Use digital technologies to collaborate, develop arguments and settle disputes. Subject Content Cybercrime: new and enhanced crimes of the digital age
Cyberjustice: the transformation of justice by digital technologies
Cyber war and cyber terrorism
Cyber bullying and stalking
Privacy and surveillance
On-line and virtual justice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 4000 words 50 Y Individual N  Case Study 200 words 20 N Group N  Reflection 800 words 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Digital Futures, Testamur Major (T005) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)