Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7033 Surgical Pathology 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401229 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401474 - Surgical Pathology of the Genito-urinary Tract, Salivary Gland and Endocrine System. This subject will re-inforce the diagnostic entities in genito-urinary tract, salivary gland and endocrine system pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology I. Two self-directed online learning modules with digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the above sub-specialties will be provided. The basic concepts in surgical, cyto- and small biopsy pathology, including the appropriate ancillary techniques in the diagnosis, prognostication and treatment prediction will be assessed. This subject is designed to further develop the basic research and communication skills, and critical thinking acquired in Surgical Pathology I, and to reinforce the resources and technical requirements needed to reach the correct pathological diagnosis. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Assumed Knowledge A basic undergraduate level knowledge in Pathology and microscopy skills is expected, as the candidates will have a MBBS or equivalent pre-requisite degree. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine and interpret diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialties of genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology
Identify and apply appropriate ancillary techniques in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions within the subspecialties of genito-urinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology
Identify common and uncommon disease entities in genitourinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology, including the diagnosis of non-neoplastic, benign and malignant entities
Define the resources and technical requirements needed to reach the correct diagnosis in genitourinary pathology, salivary gland and endocrine pathology
Produce a written report that communicates surgical and cytopathology diagnostic findings
Exemplify the behaviour required to create a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice required by pathologists Subject Content 1. Genito-urinary tract pathology
2. Salivary gland pathology
3. Endocrine system pathology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Genito-Urinary Pathology Diagnostic Case Studies (Online task) 20 cases ~300-500 words each S/U Y Individual   Salivary Gland and Endocrine Pathology Diagnostic Case Studies (Online task) 20 cases ~300-500 words each S/U Y Individual   Essay  1500 word limit 50 Y Individual   Histopathology Case Reports  10 cases
~300-500 words each
 50 Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)