Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7101 Professional Experience (Additional Needs) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102153 Coordinator William Nketsia Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills about teaching students with additional needs to a real-life classroom. In turn, this authentic learning experience enriches their future professional growth and capacity to support individuals with additional needs. Students complete a practicum and, where appropriate, a series of field visits and observations, within an educational setting, that supports individuals with additional needs. The placement will be completed in the student's area of specialisation in an early childhood, primary, secondary or other relevant setting. Students are able to demonstrate a range of skills in planning, implementing and evaluating educational programs for students with additional needs that optimise learning outcomes and inclusion. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Special Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1090 - Professional Practice in Context Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1720 Master of Inclusive Education and have successfully completed 40 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Must be a qualified teacher. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: work in a special education or inclusive setting working with students with additional needs;
administer systems for assessments across the curriculum and programming areas to determine current levels of performance;
interpret assessment data, and plan an individualised education program for young children and/or school students with additional needs;
plan a series of learning experiences to cater for the individual needs of young children and/or school students;
implement a series of lessons, demonstrating a developing range of effective teaching strategies;
implement positive approaches to managing challenging behaviours;
participate in collaborative planning to meet the needs of young children and/or school students with families/carers and other service providers;
evaluate child/student outcomes and demonstrate skills in making decisions about the effectiveness of instruction and progress;
reflect on own teaching and knowledge to enhance skills. Subject Content - An extended placement in an education setting, plus an extensive range of observations and field visits;
- Collaborative participation in collaborative planning;
- Developing an individual learning plan in collaboration with families/carers, service providers and child;
- Skills and knowledge used in assessments;
- Instructional strategies for assisting young children or school students to meet learning outcomes;
- Knowledge of the teaching and learning cycle in a range of Key Learning Areas and/or programming areas;
- Communication strategies used during placement teaching sessions including alternative and augmented communication;
- learning organisation and management of learning environments that maximise learning time for all students. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Inclusive Education. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 20-25 days S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 word reflective statement S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact William Nketsia Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Teacher Education (TEAC)