Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5037 Technology Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102882 Coordinator Adam Watson Opens in new window Description The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge. The specifics of the relevant Board of Studies NSW Years 11-12 Syllabuses in Technology Key Learning Area and links with the Years 7-10 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying engaged inquiry teaching within the specific secondary subject, on creativity and quality teaching outcomes, on innovative program, subject and lesson planning and on the role of student data in authentic and appropriate assessment practices. Students will have opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to sustainability and diversity in the teaching of the specific subject area. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714, 1848 or 1914 must have a relevant Technology Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Technology syllabuses and the effect upon syllabus implementation of current NSW and Australian educational policies and priorities.
Demonstrate understanding of socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in teaching senior Technologies.
Demonstrate understanding of Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander design solutions in Technology and the impact of historical and contemporary design solutions surrounding Indigenous cultural and intellectual property.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of senior assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design and select innovative teaching resources that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching senior Technologies and include opportunities to develop students’ inquiry skills.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of sources in teaching lessons and programs.
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of Technology teaching. Subject Content What is the nature of the subject in the senior years of secondary education including the concepts, substance and structure of senior secondary curriculum content in Technology?
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
How can we explore Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander design solutions in Technology?
How can we investigate the impact of historical and contemporary design solutions and  understand ethical responsibilities surrounding Indigenous cultural and intellectual property?
How do we apply a holistic approach by considering the factors affecting design and production in a design project?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
Specific professional practices and key pedagogical approaches related to teaching and learning in Design and Technologies, and their theoretical underpinnings (e.g. OHS, safe practices)
Alignment and coherence in content, learning outcomes, pedagogy in curriculum programming in Technologies with a focus on Years 11-12
Pedagogical strategies to facilitate creativity, promote problem solving and foster critical thinking in Technologies
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the subject? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2013) Design and Technology Stage 6 Syllabus Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Adam Watson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)