Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 1001 Digital Systems 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300018 Coordinator Qi Cheng Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a solid background in digital logic design which is foundational to the fields of electrical and computer engineering. Digital logic design involves building electronic components and hardware, such as circuit boards and microchip processors. Students are first introduced to the fundamentals of digital logic, basic logic devices and Boolean algebra. This is followed by analysis and design of combinational and sequential logic circuits. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Communications Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ELEC 1002 - Digital Systems 1 (WSTC AssocD) Assumed Knowledge Knowledge on basic principles of analysing an electric circuit, Kirchhoff's Voltage and Current laws and their use in electric circuits and concept of operational amplifier and its circuit would be desirable. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe basic digital concepts and the operation of basic logic gates.
Apply Boolean Algebra to a range of logic expressions
Apply Karnaugh maps to a range of logic expressions.
Analyse and design combinational logic circuits.
Describe the operation of a range of memory devices.
Describe the principles of analogue-to-digital and digital-to-analogue conversion schemes. Subject Content 1. Boolean algebra and logic simplification
2. Karnaugh maps
3. Combinational logic circuits
4. Flip-flops, counters, registers
5. Memory
6. Analogue-to-digital and digital-to-analogue conversion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 3 hours (per Practical) 20 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Floyd, T. L. (2015). Digital fundamentals. 11th Global ed, Boston, Mass: Pearson Education Inc Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Qi Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qi Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Qi Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105)