Academic Handbook Current Edition EART 3005 Statistical Hydrology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300991 Coordinator Ankit Agarwal Opens in new window Description This subject covers the principles of statistical hydrology. It explores at-site flood frequency analysis, regional flood frequency analysis, trend analysis of hydrological data, linear regression analysis and multivariate statistical techniques to solve hydrological problems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Hydrology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) EART 4001 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply at-site flood frequency analysis techniques to estimate design floods from recorded streamflow data.
Apply regional flood frequency analysis techniques to estimate design floods when no recorded streamflow data is available.
Apply trend analysis to rainfall and streamflow time series data to check the stationarity of the data.
Apply linear regression analysis to develop prediction models to estimate streamflow and rainfall indices.
Apply multivariate statistical techniques to hydrological problems.
Evaluate current Australian codes and software to solve statistical hydrological problems.
Critically evaluate current literature to benchmark recent problems and developments in statistical hydrology practice.
Design sustainable hydrology projects. Subject Content 1. At-site flood frequency analysis
2. Regional flood frequency analysis
3. Trend analysis of hydrological data
4. Linear regression analysis as applied to hydrological problems
5. Multivariate statistical techniques as applied to hydrological problems Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Report 2,500 words 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hour 55 N Individual N Structures that include subject Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Earth Sciences (EART) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129) Water and Environment, Concentration (0118) ​Water and Environment, Minor (0118)