Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7022 International Human Rights Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200961 Coordinator Robert Mezyk Opens in new window Description This subject examines the foundations of the concept of human rights under international law, how international law became concerned with the rights of individuals and the development of international measures for the protection of human rights. It examines the extent of compromise of international human rights where sovereignty, cultural relativism and political resistance preclude comprehensive incorporation of some fundamental human rights principles in domestic law. Instruments such as The Charter of the United Nations, The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights are also examined. School Law Discipline International Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7057 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2824 Master of Laws or 2826 Juris Doctor to enrol in this subject. Students in program 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies or 1923 Master of Global Security and Justice should seek permission from the law school via a rule waiver to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the fundamental norms of international human rights law, including the provisions of the principal human rights instruments and important jurisprudence of relevant human rights bodies;
Evaluate the principal human rights-related institutions;
Explain the effectiveness of their procedures at the international level for the protection and promotion of human rights;
Critically analyse and assess the major (non-legal) challenges to international human rights law;
Apply human rights principles in negotiations and problem solving. Subject Content 1. Historical and philosophical foundations of human rights
2. Challenges to traditional conceptions of human rights
3. International human rights norms and institutions
4. Regional human rights systems
5. Human rights protection at the national level
6. The human rights treaty monitoring system
7. Case studies of human rights interventions on specific issues, which might include: asylum seekers; indigenous peoples; human trafficking; children?fs rights; rights of women; peace and security
8. Case studies of human rights interventions in specific countries, which might include Australia, New Zealand, Afghanistan, South Sudan, Timor Leste, Myanmar, Russia Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 3,000 words 40 N Individual N  Participation Ongoing throughout semester 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Robert Mezyk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Mezyk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Laws (2824)