Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0031 English for Tertiary Study 1 (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900102 Coordinator Richard Robinson Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to introduce International students to academic culture as a culture of argument and equip them with the academic literacy skills necessary to perform successfully in this culture. In particular, the subject aims to help International students access the conventions of academic English by focussing on attitudes to knowledge, and the ways in which ideas are structured and presented in academic texts and speech. The subject assists students to comprehend academic texts, identify key ideas and concepts, and identify and use the rhetorical moves used in academic texts. It also aims to help students compare and contrast ideas across texts, improve grammatical skills that relate to academic writing, summarise and synthesise information, and understand why, when and how to reference information. In addition, there is a focus on listening and pronunciation skills for International students. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 0006 - Academic English 1 (UWSC) LANG 0037 - Introduction to Academic Communication 1 (UWSC) LANG 0001 - Academic Communication 1 (UWSCFS) LANG 0030 - English for Tertiary Study 1 (UWSCFS) LANG 0036 - Introduction to Academic Communication 1 (UWSCFS) Learning Outcomes Define academic culture and explain the use of evidence to support an argument.
Employ effective listening strategies to identify main ideas and supporting evidence.  
Utilise appropriate reading strategies to comprehend academic texts.
Produce writing that successfully summarises and paraphrases the work of others.
Demonstrate a command of academic English, including grammar, phrasing, effective sentence structure, spelling and punctuation in a variety of written contexts.
Apply the conventions of academic presentations in written and oral formats.
Critically reflect on their own learning. Subject Content Academic culture as a culture of argument
Active listening and note-taking skills
Reading in an academic culture: the development of ideas
Reading in an academic culture: the relative importance of ideas
Reading in an academic culture: identifying arguments
Writing in an academic culture: academic language skills and grammar
Writing in an academic culture: paraphrasing/summarising and synthesising skills
Writing in an academic culture: comparing and contrasting ideas across multiple texts
Writing in an academic culture: research and referencing
Speaking in an academic culture: pronunciation
Speaking in an academic culture: the structure of presenting ideas
Speaking in an academic culture: tutorial/presentation skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    In-class listening task 250 words 15 N Individual   In-class writing task  300 words 20 N Individual   Essay Plan 150 words 10 N Individual   Expository Essay (Mandatory task) 1000 words 40 N Individual   Oral Presentation 3 - 5 minutes 15 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)