Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1028 Human Rights, Peace and Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101573 Coordinator Melissa Phillips Opens in new window Description The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was written in response to the atrocities of World War II. Since its ratification, the UDHR has been a 'roadmap' for peace, forming the basis for international responses to conflicts, poverty and disadvantage. This subject examines and critiques the concept of human rights. It will be shown how differentials of political and economic power between countries and groups within countries are used to prioritise and preference different rights so as to justify selective humanitarian efforts in the initial phases of peace-making and the policy requirements for peace-building in human social, economic and cultural development. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1033 - Inequality and Human Rights HUMN 1029 - Human Rights Peace and Development (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the concepts and philosophy of human rights, peace and development.
Identify and describe the different categories of rights ? civil, political, economic and cultural within the context of peace and development
Analyse the impact of human rights to the social conditions of vulnerable persons and groups.
Identify and describe the significant debates within the area of human rights as they apply to issues of peace and development.
Apply human rights concepts and arguments to analyse and evaluate topical and controversial issues within the areas of peace and development . Subject Content International Human Rights in an Historical Perspective. Defining Peace and Development.
The Philosophical Foundations of Human Rights.
Civil and Political Rights.
Economic and Social Rights.
Cultural and Environmental Rights.
The rights of different social groups (with particular focus on gender and indigenous peoples)
A Critique of the Concept of Human Rights.
Examining the UN implementation of the UDHR during conflicts between countries and within countries.
Examining implementation of human rights on climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1000 words 35 N Individual Y  Presentation 750 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1000 words 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Melissa Phillips Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Melissa Phillips Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) Human Rights, Protection and Development, Major (0095) Humanitarian Preparedness and Response, Major (0094) Peace and Development Studies, Major (0027) Peace and Development Studies, Minor (0027) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainable Development, Major (0163)