Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5040 Digital Literacies in Education Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jose Hanham Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce, develop and apply innovative digital literacy skills needed to be successful in the teaching profession. The subject will address digital literacy as a multidimensional skill-set covering domains related to: i) searching, accessing, analysing, and critically evaluating information; ii) communicating and sharing information; iii) creating digital products; iv) safety, and v) problem-solving. The subject will focus on the digital learner, instructional design in digital contexts, e-safety, social media, intellectual property and legal implications for teachers. The subject will assess the critical analysis, creation and application of digital literacy skills for teachers as determined by the Australian Professional Teaching Standards. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching  program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM. Learning Outcomes Articulate the relevant issues of a digital and globalised world and effective strategies to support the sustainable, safe, responsible, and ethical use of ICT in learning and teaching. 
Apply instructional design and multimedia principles to expand curriculum learning opportunities for students.
Critically evaluate, retrieve, manipulate, and manage information from a range of digital sources.
Create engaging and accessible digital content for educational contexts
Reflect on digital literacy to identify and plan professional learning needs. Subject Content Topic 1 - The Digital Learner
Topic 2 - The Current Digital Landscape
Topic 3 - Emerging Digital Technologies
Topic 4 - Accessibility
Topic 5 - Instructional Design and Multimedia Principles
Topic 6 - Creating, curating, and sharing digital content
Topic 7 - Presenting data effectively to key stakeholders Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 4 minutes duration for presentation 30 N Group Y  Reflection 2 minutes duration 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1000-1500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jose Hanham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jose Hanham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)