Academic Handbook Current Edition GEDU 0017 Transition Success (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 15 Coordinator David Curtin Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to take the next step in their academic development by helping them build higher level reflective skills that will allow them to critically consider their own learning and professional journey and make the adjustments required to achieve their goals. 

Students will begin to take ownership of their learning by developing proactive strategies that will allow them to study on their own terms.

Students will begin engaging with their intended profession and reflect on the skills, attributes and qualifications that will be required to reach their goals.  

Students will also develop a transition plan to help them navigate the next steps in their academic journey so that they can identify the challenges they might encounter as they move forward, and develop the skills to overcome them. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 15cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically assess your own learning journey and plan your next steps.
Design proactive strategies to enhance your study success.
Demonstrate entry level skills required in your intended profession.
Devise an employability and future success plan.
Identify challenges for transition and strategies to overcome them Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation  S/U N Individual N  Proposal 1000 words S/U N Individual N  Log/Workbook 1200 word equivalent S/U N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact David Curtin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) General Education Programs (GEDU)