Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0012 Academic and Professional Communication (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700276 Coordinator Deborah Cronholm Opens in new window Description The ability to communicate clearly and persuasively to diverse audiences is a key professional prerequisite. This subject provides students with a preliminary understanding of a range of communication theories and practices necessary for academic work and effective professional communication including presenting in a professional setting. Both professional and societal cultural norms are explored as a contextual basis of the subject. The subject assists in the acquisition of professional skills through authentic and meaningful learning experiences and assessment. The subject assists students to comprehend academic and professional texts, identify key ideas and evidence, and identify and apply certain rhetorical moves which are common in academic communication. It also aims to help students to improve grammatical skills that relate to academic writing, summarise and synthesise information, and understand why, when and how to cite information.  In addition, the subject encourages students to develop strategies to maximize their learning and to reflect on their own learning styles. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 7138 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology - ICT or 7139 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology or 7140 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology - Information Systems or 7141 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline a range of factors which affect oral and written communication within professional contexts.
Demonstrate an understanding of communication across cultures.
Demonstrate an understanding of multiple perspectives on issues relating to digital communication
Develop skills to write effectively using a variety of formats, including research and referencing.
Collaborate in large and small group environments.
Identify evidence to reinforce a position.
Understand academic and professional communication skills.
Demonstrate analytical thinking skills to develop innovative and well-founded perspectives related to course content.
Demonstrate an understanding of multiple perspectives on issues relating to digital communication
Outline a range of factors which affect professional oral and written communication within an ICT context.
Identify evidence to support a position by selecting valid information strategically.
Demonstrate an understanding of academic and professional communication skills.
Demonstrate analytical thinking skills to develop innovative and well-founded perspectives related to ICT innovations Subject Content 1. What Professional Communication is and how it positively impacts the work environment
2. Critical thinking for academic and professional work
3. Introduction to a variety of professional writing skills
4. Group work in a professional setting
5. Public speaking and professional presentation of ideas
6. Cultural Communication in a professional context
7. Academic writing and referencing
1. What Professional Communication is and how it positively impacts the work environment
2. Critical thinking for academic and professional work
3. Introduction to a variety of professional writing skills
4. Public speaking and professional presentation of ideas
5. Cultural Communication in a professional context
6. Academic reading, writing and referencing skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio  30 N Individual N  Presentation  20 N Individual N  Essay  35 N Individual N  Reflection  15 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Deborah Cronholm Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Deborah Cronholm Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Information Systems (INFS) Language and Literature (LANG)