Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3043 Recreational Therapy Internship Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401400 Coordinator Arianne Reis Opens in new window Description This subject allows students to integrate and apply all learning accumulated throughout their Recreational Therapy major. It focuses on preparing students to professional practice by including 560h of internship in recreational therapy services in addition to coursework focusing on professional development. Students will have an opportunity to work on their professionalism, assessment skills, planning and implementation of recreation therapy programs and services, evaluation and documentation of client progress and work on their administration skills. This subject is designed to meet all National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC) requirements, leading to potential Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) designation. The internship may be in any area of recreation therapy practice that serves students’ needs and accreditation requirements. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2014 AND
REHA 2015 Restrictions To enrol in this unit, students must: Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply ethical conduct standards to recreation therapy practice
Consider the policy structures within which recreation therapy practice is situated as well as the political challenges facing the profession
Employ professional behaviours and attitudes in practice settings, including communicating effectively with clients, team members, relevant community groups and industry partners.
Utilise a range of assessments to set long- and short-term goals
Implement and evaluate recreational therapy interventions in the practice setting.
Prepare documents in a professional format
Practice self-directed learning strategies and reflect on practice experience to continually improve practice
Implement career planning strategies, including the development of professional networks and knowledge and skills for entering the workforce Subject Content 1.Professional practice placement
2.Professional behaviours and self-management skills
3.Communication skills
4.Documentation skills for practice
5.Assessment of individual and group needs
6.Implementation and evaluation of programs for individuals and groups
7.Career planning, professional networks and preparation for entering the workforce Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement. Students must also hold a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation and have submitted a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 multiple choice questions 5 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 min plus slides 20 N Individual N  Reflection 15min presentation plus 500 word reflection 35 N Individual N  Portfolio 2500 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 17 pages S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Liz Atteya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)