Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7059 Ageing in Place: Wellbeing and Sustainability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401417 Coordinator Shyama Ratnayake Opens in new window Description This subject addresses a multi-faceted perspectives of healthy and successful ageing. A major focus is to raise awareness about creating an age-friendly community which facilitates older age groups, including those from culturally diverse backgrounds, and Aboriginal and Torres Straits Islander peoples, to be actively involved in all community activities to stay connected to people and place that are important to them. The multiple perspectives of ageing in place integrates biomedical, physical environment/design, legal, ethical, policy, service provision and social contexts of ageing. Knowledge and skills acquired in this subject are useful for planners, managers and health care providers for those working with aged communities. The subject covers evidence-based approaches affecting physical environment, personal characteristics and psychosocial mechanisms that facilitate older people to age successfully. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Prerequisite for students in 4785 - NURS 7075 Nursing Practice 3
Prerequisite for students in 4691 and 4780 - NURS 3032 - Professional Practice Experience 5 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program or 
4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 
4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online or 
4785 Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) or 
4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 
4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge Knowledge related to social sciences, biosciences and nursing across the lifespan Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the diversity within the aged communities and their unique attributes and needs.
Articulate and apply current evidence from a multidisciplinary perspective enabling older people to maintain independence, autonomy, and connection to social support, including friends and family.
Analyse the needs of aged communities from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds living in Australia and those of Aboriginal and Torres Straits Islander peoples.
Evaluate processes and propose strategies to be considered in designing age-friendly communities, including reform agendas and policies that promote age-friendliness. Subject Content Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 200 - word x 2 submissions (10% each) 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 1000 - word equivalent 40 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1000 - word equivalent 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Shyama Ratnayake Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Shyama Ratnayake Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Shyama Ratnayake Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Fleur Vanderheld Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Graduate Certificate in Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4783) Graduate Diploma in Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4782) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)