Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7072 Mental Health Nursing Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401459 Coordinator Gihane Endrawes Opens in new window Description Mental Health Nursing Practice develops knowledge and skills to support nursing practice when providing care for people with mental health issues in a range of health care settings. It explores contemporary models of care such as recovery-oriented practice, trauma-informed care, and social determinants approach. Students will develop awareness and plan evidence-based initiatives that promote mental health, prevent and intervene early in illness, facilitate recovery, and promote wellbeing. The subject includes 80 hours of clinical placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 3040 - Foundation of Nursing Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, professional communication, foundational concepts in human behavioural science and their application to nursing or midwifery practice, roles and responsibilities of registered nurse Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critically reflect on the application of appropriate knowledge, skills, and attitudes in mental health nursing integrating knowledge of safety and quality standards 
2. Deliberate ethical, legal and professional issues that may influence the therapeutic relationship with mental health consumers, carers, and significant others
3.Adapt a lifespan approach to develop person centred professional therapeutic relationships with mental health consumers, carers, and significant others using empathic and compassionate language 
4. Advocate supporting the rights of mental health consumers to lead their treatment and recovery process, and the rights of carers and significant others with the consumer’s consent, to collaborate in the treatment and recovery process 
5. Investigate best  evidence initiatives that promote mental health, prevent, and intervene early in illness, facilitate recovery, and promote wellbeing
6. Analyse how to facilitate the recovery of mental health consumers by focussing on strengths and wellbeing Subject Content 1. An introduction to anxiety disorders, depression, suicide, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, substance use based on Recovery Principles and Trauma Informed Care
2. An introduction to mental health assessment, including comprehensive assessment of mental health consumers, carers and families, risk and strength assessments, triage, and diagnostic categories
3. Psycho-social concerns would be reflected in person-centred / Recovery model and the importance of having a conversation about what is happening in their lives currently. The focus is on a wholistic approach.
4. An introduction to psychopharmacology
5. Effect of stigma and myths around mental illness
6. Lived experience of mental health consumers and carers, consumer, and carer partnership in recovery.
7. Positive images about people with mental illness, promoting positive messages
8. Explore ethical application of the MH Act, 2007 including least restrictive care
9. Building professional therapeutic relationship with mental health consumers, carers, and families using empathetic communication skills
10. Contemporary models of care such as recovery-oriented practice and trauma-informed care
11. Effect of cultural/ spiritual and social factors (including Domestic Violence) in mental illness on individuals, families, and communities, including CALD-use of interpreters
12. Mental health promotion and early intervention strategies
13. Discussion of strength approach to Recovery
14. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander social and emotional wellbeing
15. An introduction to mental health and vulnerable populations
16. An introduction to physical assessment in mental health
17. Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Essential equipment Students must wear the School of Nursing and Midwifery clinical uniform, including correct fully enclosed ALL black shoes [that meet WHS requirements - Shoes must be low heeled, fully enclosed, non-slip soles (Reeboks, joggers, sandshoes, sneakers, gym shoes, sandals, slippers, ballet shoes, etc. are NOT acceptable.)] to all CPU classes and the clinical placement. The uniform can be purchased from the retail store on campus. Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 80 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks - 100% Mandatory attendance for all timetabled classes S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Gihane Endrawes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gihane Endrawes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)