Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1019 Understanding Society (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700049 Coordinator Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window Description Understanding Society introduces first year students to key sociological concepts, methods and theories used for the examination of individuals, social interactions, institutions and structures.  Students explore how individual experiences are connected to wider social patterns.  Considering questions of power, students will be introduced to various debates concerning structure and agency, and will examine social inequality.  With a focus on contemporary social life, the subject provides opportunity for students to consider current social issues and processes of social change.  At the conclusion of their studies in this subject students will have been presented with opportunities to develop skills in critical reading and sociological analysis. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1017 - Understanding Society Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in Extended Diploma College programs must have passed 40 credit points of the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject.
Students enrolled in Integrated Diploma/Bachelor programs must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key concepts in sociology.
Identify key characteristics of the major theoretical frameworks used in sociology.
Identify relevant sources, and assess approaches to and claims about social processes and institutions in contemporary society.
Apply a sociological understanding of power, social inequality and social change to case study materials.
Demonstrate reading, writing and referencing skills commensurate with university scholarship. Subject Content The sociological perspective
Individual and social identities
Social groups and relationships
Social institutions
Power, structure and agency
Social inequality
Social change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes - 10 questions 10 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 500 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice (exit only) (7032) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) (exit only) (7167) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Other Society and Culture (CULT)