Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 2006 Agriculture, Food and Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301389 Coordinator Michelle Mak Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to strengthen student understanding of the important interactions between food, agriculture, environment and health.  Traditionally the topics of food, agriculture, environment and health have been taught mainly in isolation from each other.  It is becoming increasingly apparent that this traditional approach bears little relevance to real world issues and in some cases acts as an impediment to progress.   Alternatives to the current 'western industrialised' food production system will be explored.  These include organic agriculture, local farmer markets, and consumer driven changes to food production systems. School Science Discipline Agriculture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 6185 - Ecology of Production Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of resource sustainability issues. Learning Outcomes Analyse the impacts of food choices on personal health.
Analyse the impacts of food choices on the environment.
Analyse impacts of food choices on the businesses and communities that provide food services.
Apply conceptual models to the analysis of food supply chains.
Critically evaluate current and future food supply systems. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Industry Seminar 15 minutes 20 N Individual   Mid semester assessment - Essay 2,000 words 20 N Individual   Assessment of Practicals - Reports 1 report 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Final examination 2 hours 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Natural Science, Major (0213) Social Sciences, Major (0216)