Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1019 Management Foundations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code MG102A Coordinator Ian Caddy Opens in new window Description Management Foundations' provides an opportunity for students to understand the linkage between organisational processes and managerial practices. The aim of the subject is to identify the dynamic nature of managerial practice in changing social, economic, technological and global environments. The subject investigates management theory, roles, and managerial skills and addresses the ongoing needs of decision making, quality management and worksite safety management.  This subject is offered specifically to the School of Computing, Engineering and Mathematics and the School of Social Sciences and Psychology. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Incompatible Subjects BUSM 1038 - Management Dynamics Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the degrees offered by the Schools of: Computing, Engineering and Mathematics; Social Sciences and Psychology; Humanities and Communication Arts; and Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the complex nature of organisations and management.
Analyse the environments of organisations by identifying the dynamic nature of managerial practice in changing social, economic, technological and global environments.
Assess the relationship of organisations with their stakeholders in the context of social responsibility and managerial ethics.
Evaluate decision-making models and processes and the effect of risk on decision making.
Evaluate planning processes and systems and how organisational planning is affected by environmental uncertainty.
Examine the integrative organisational role of management in the context of strategic leadership.
Examine professional standards of workplace behaviour and communication. Subject Content Introduction to the dynamic nature of management as a contingent and complex endeavour.
Environmental analysis of organisations and managerial practice in sustainable social, economic and technological environments and in the global context.
Organisations and managerial practice from the stakeholder perspective: social responsibility and managerial ethics.Decision-making and risk.
Quality management.
Work Health and Safety.
Organisational planning and environmental uncertainty.
Strategic organisational leadership: leadership capability.
Strategic organisational leadership: groups and teams.
Strategic organisational leadership: communications and interpersonal skills.
Professional standards in workplace behaviour and communications. Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)