Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7012 Business Project Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 200829 Coordinator Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point subject over two Quarters, 20 weeks in total, 10 credit points in each Quarter. Business Project equips professionals to address contemporary challenges through research and applying knowledge developed in earlier units of study. This student-centred subject provides close supervision of research and analytical practices to enhance skill development and capacity to engage with problems confronting organisations, taking account of contexts and multiple stakeholders. Students will have scope to focus on issues that are of particular concern to organisations or interest for their careers. As an integrating subject, it demands participants bring together their knowledge and curiosity to develop recommendations in a format that can showcase their achievements. In order to complete this subject, students must have studied this subject over two teaching periods. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program or in program 3748 Master of Information Governance. Students in the following program must have successfully completed 60 credit points before undertaking this unit: 2764 Master of Commerce (Human Resource Management). Students in the following programs must have successfully completed 40 credit points before undertaking this unit: 2624 Master of Business (Operations Management) and 2725 Master of Commerce (Property Investment and Development). Students in program 2761 Master of Business Administration must have completed all core subjects plus 40 credit points of major subjects (i.e. a total of 80 credit points) and must obtain permission of the Director of Academic Program. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the business environment and organisational structures, business communications skills, business strategy, as well as substantial knowledge in the  major discipline area. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop a project proposal outlining a business plan for an in-depth investigation of a contemporary organisational challenge;
Analyse and interpret secondary data gathered from a range of sources, to assist in defining and refining the contemporary issue;
Apply theories, concepts and tools to the challenge faced by the organisation or industry;
Develop strategies based on the results of analysis of data considering stakeholder objectives and constraints, such as competitive pressures and regulation that demonstrate respect for ethics and diversity;
Develop insights into theory, research practice and challenges of leadership by assessing the significance of recommendations relative to the dynamic and complex nature of organisations in uncertain environments. Subject Content Students will work in conjunction with the subject Coordinator and an academic supervisor who is an academic expert in their area of specialisation. All projects must be approved by the subject Coordinator prior to commencing. Each project will involve literature survey, application of theory and techniques, methodological investigation and recommendations. Wherever possible projects should be industry based and directly relevant to the student?fs area of interest. Students will meet with their Supervisor regularly throughout the study period and with the subject Coordinator, in a class environment, as defined by the subject guidelines. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 10 N Individual Y  Report 4,000 words and 10 minute presentation 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 4 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 4 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Peter Kavalamthara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Business (Operations Management) (2624) Master of Business Administration (2761) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782) Master of Business Analytics (2816) Master of Finance (2705) Master of Marketing (2817)