Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 5001 Infectious Diseases and Outbreak Response Credit Points 10 Coordinator Slade Jensen Opens in new window Description Infectious disease occurs following interaction between a host and microbial by parasites. This subject will encompass clinical aspects, epidemiology, prevention and control of important communicable diseases, both in Australia, and globally. Starting at a foundational level, this subject will explain how infectious agents interact with human hosts. Prevention of infectious disease will then be investigated through examination of immunisation approaches and vaccine preventable diseases, infection control in healthcare settings and infectious disease surveillance and legislative requirements. Key principles of outbreak response to infectious disease will be explored through practical application of contemporary outbreak investigation methods and disaster response aspects of infectious disease control measures. The subject will conclude with an examination of emerging global infectious disease threats including through bioterrorism climate change and indigenous aspects of infectious disease. School Medicine Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Examine principle of host pathogenicity & host defence 
Assess measures that can be taken to control infectious disease
Analyse public health legislation that applies to management of infectious disease
Explore emerging infectious disease threats 
Apply contemporary infectious disease outbreak approaches to mitigate an infectious disease threat Subject Content Foundations of infectious disease
	
1.1. Introduction; Pathogenicity & Host defence 
1.2. Laboratory diagnosis of infectious diseases
1.3. Other infectious agents


Prevention of infectious disease
	
2.1. Immunisation & Vaccine-preventable diseases
2.2. Infection control
2.3. Communicable disease surveillance and legislative requirements


Outbreak response to infectious disease
	
3.1. Contemporary outbreak investigations
3.2. Disaster response aspects of infectious diseases


Emerging global infectious disease threats
	
4.1. Bioterrorism
4.2. The global burden of emerging and neglected infectious diseases
4.3. Climate change & infectious diseases
4.4. Indigenous aspects of infectious disease Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz MCQ quiz x4 40 minutes for each quiz x 4 (10% each) 40 N Individual N  Participation Case Study Discussion board x4, 200 words for each case study (5% each) 20 N Individual N  Essay 2000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Slade Jensen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Public Health (4704) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Public Health (4702) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Public Health (PUBH)