Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 1022 Construction Site Safety (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Robert Paluzzano Opens in new window Description This subject describes the context of safety management within the Australian construction industry. Covering a range of topics, the subject addresses the sector's historically subpar performance in Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) while exploring avenues for improvement. The subject extends beyond basic hazard identification and risk management to encompass an in-depth look at workplace safety responsibilities, causes of accidents, WHS legal frameworks, and individual accountability. It also covers the specific hazards and controls related to WHS, techniques for thorough accident investigation, and the economic and ethical considerations affecting construction safety. Finally, the subject outlines effective principles and strategies for promoting a culture of safety within the industry. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Understand and articulate the importance or Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) within the Australian construction industry.
Recognise the legal and ethical responsibilities related to WHS in construction, including regulatory frameworks.
Examine the economic implications and root causes of workplace injuries and accidents in the construction sector.
Perform comprehensive risk assessment and implement effective WHS management strategies in construction projects.
Utilise WHS theories and principles to systematically develop and assess safety interventions and strategies in construction. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2x Quiz, 30 minutes each 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Viva Voce 10 minutes 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)