Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 1005 Electrical Fundamentals (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700024 Coordinator Ben Kelley Opens in new window Description The objective of this subject is to introduce to the student a number of concepts within electrical engineering.  These include the basic definitions of charge, current, potential difference, power;  electric circuits and basic laws such as Ohm's and Kirchoff's Laws;  Thevenin, Norton's and the maximum power theorems;  electromagnetism and the associated fundamental laws;  capacitor and resistor circuits and time constants; an introduction to Electronics; communication waves; Logic gates and number systems;  and an introduction to Electrical Machines and Renewable Energy systems.  Basic principles are explained and applied to a range of typical electrical circuits and devices. These foundations provide students with the basic requirements for a career in engineering where the concepts can be developed or applied to more complex engineering systems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 6033 Diploma in EngineeringBachelor of Engineering Studies or 7034 Diploma in Engineering or 7066 Diploma in Engineering Extended must pass PHYS 0003 Foundation Physics 2 before enrolling in this unit Equivalent Subjects ELEC 1003 - Electrical Fundamentals ELEC 1004 - Electrical Fundamentals (WSTC Assoc Deg) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the elements in an electric circuit
Apply the basic principles of analysing an electric circuit
Apply nodal, mesh, superposition, Thevenin's analysis DC electric circuits
Apply the principles of capacitors and inductors as energy storage elements and their first order circuits
Explain characteristics of electronic devices
Explain basic principles of communication waves
Explain significance of Logic gates and number systems
Explain the operation of transformers, DC and AC machines
Explain principle of operation of Renewable Energy systems Subject Content 1. Introduction to basic electrical quantities
2. Kirchhoffs current and voltage laws
3. Series and parallel resistors, current and the voltage divider rules
4. Nodal and Loop analysis, The principle of superposition and Thevenin and Norton equivalent circuits
5. Energy storage elements, capacitors and inductors. Transient Response of first-order circuits
6. An introduction to Electronics
7. An introduction to communication waves
8. Logic gates and number systems
9. An introduction to Transformers, Electrical Machines
10. An introduction to renewable energy systems Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz In-class test x4 (2.5% each)
10 - 15 minutes during tutorial class 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Practical Practicals x5 (4% each) (2 hours each) 20 N Both (Individual & Group) N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ben Kelley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ben Kelley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Engineering (7034) Diploma in Engineering Extended (7162) Diploma in Engineering Fast Track (7035) Diploma in Engineering/Bachelor of Engineering Studies (6033) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC)