Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1070 Indigenous Australia: People, Places and Philosophies (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the rich diversity: past, present and future of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in Australia with emphasis placed on the importance of identity, diversity, representation and resilience. You will engage directly with Indigenous sources and learn to critically analyse content from Indigenous standpoints. Presenting as a challenging and thought-provoking experience of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, places and philosophies, this subject provides a solid theoretical foundation of Indigenous perspectives essential for the knowledge and professional practices in your chosen field. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Indigenous Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1060
HUMN 1062 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Outline precolonial indigenous Australian cultural and philosophical world views  
Discuss the social, cultural and political implications of British colonialism that challenge contemporary Indigenous Australia.  
Explain societal misconceptions, ideas, attitudes and assumptions about Indigenous Australia. 
Discuss the importance of core concepts including identity, diversity, representation and resilience.  
Adopt a socially and culturally responsive personal and professional approach to Indigenous Australia. Subject Content Introduction to Indigenous Worlds, Standpoints & Research
Indigenous Land and Country, Spaces and Places
A Historical Timeline: Tracing Major Events from Pre-Colonisation to Today
Contemporary Indigenous Activism & Identities
Interrogating “Closing the Gap’’ and Other Policies in Relation to Indigenous Social Determinants
Working in Indigenous Contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Learning Contract 250 - 300 words 20 N Individual N  Learning Contract 1,000 words 40 N Individual N  Reflection 5-7 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There is no essential text for this subject. Please see readings on this subject's vUWS site. Teaching Periods Autumn Block 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)