Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5005 English Curriculum 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102863 Coordinator Kay Carroll Opens in new window Description The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice to develop students' pedagogical content knowledge in the teaching of English. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with English teaching in all textual forms including spoken, written and visual forms to build meaning. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10 Syllabus and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying English teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research into the teaching of English and different approaches to the study of texts will be important. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714 or 1914 must have the English Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of NSW English curriculum in Stage 4 and 5 combined with an understanding of the broader role of subject English culturally and historically, as well as in the growth of students as users of the language.
Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in the English curriculum area.
Engage with texts that include widely acknowledged quality literature of past and contemporary societies and engage with the literature and literary heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design creative and innovative teaching programs that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching English and include opportunities to develop students’ reading, listening, speaking, representing, viewing and writing skills. 
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of texts in teaching lessons and programs.
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of English. Subject Content What is the nature of English in the junior years of secondary education? How is writing linked to what is taught in the junior and middle years of secondary education?
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the writing in English?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the teaching of English? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in English?
How is writing, reading, listening, speaking and representation scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate in the teaching of English in secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How may the incorporation of multi-modal and representation texts support the achievement of quality writing, reading, speaking, listening and viewing?
How can we effectively assess and develop writing, reading, speaking, listening and viewing?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for  awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
What are key models of the subject – current and historical? How do notions of English-as-Literacy; English-as-Language and English-as-Literature relate to these?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the role of the English teacher? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kay Carroll Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)