Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 7004 Tourism, Hospitality and Events Insights Credit Points 10 Coordinator Song Ee Hahn Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the knowledge and skills to analyse, interpret, translate, and communicate research insights in the  tourism, hospitality and event management sectors. Through practical application and class-based theory, students will have the opportunity to gain the critical skills required to locate, select, evaluate and analyse relevant qualitative and quantitative data gathered through a variety of data collection techniques. Students will also learn how to interpret, translate and communicate research insights to diverse audience using creative techniques. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 6004 - Data Capture and Creative Communication Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Interpret and communicate complex data to meet a variety of organisational and operational needs.
2. Apply appropriate techniques for secondary data analysis. 
3. Synthesise complex data using textual and visual methods.
4. Communicate complex data to diverse audiences. Subject Content 1. Importance of insights in the tourism, hospitality and events sectors.
2. Finding and generating insights data.
3. Analysing qualitative and quantitative data using specialised software (e.g. Microsoft Excel, NVivo and equivalent programs).
4. Interpreting and translating complex data.
5. Synthesising and communicating complex data. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 500 words 20 N Individual N  Reflection 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Song Ee Hahn Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1938) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism Futures (exit only) (1921) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (exit only) (1937) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Sustainable Tourism and Visitor Economies, Major (0320) Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management), Minor (0360) Tourism (TOUR)