Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7112 Prosocial Learning Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101105 Coordinator Yvette Barton Opens in new window Description Educators have a key responsibility in guiding children’s development of self-discipline, moral autonomy, sense of social belonging, and wellbeing, whilst acknowledging the plurality of family and community values and expectations surrounding children’s socio-emotional development and conduct. Students will build an in-depth knowledge of a range of theories and practical approaches to proactively guide children’s learning of positive behaviours and minimise and manage instances of challenging behaviours. The subject focuses on the design of safe, structured, and positive learning environments that promote a positive socio-emotional climate utilising whole early childhood and primary school policies and frameworks. The subject assists students to critically evaluate the implementation of various guidance approaches and reflect on their personal and professional dispositions regarding behaviour and guidance in early childhood and primary school settings. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain the factors that influence prosocial behaviour in the context of children’s development of self-regulation, moral autonomy and sense of social belonging and wellbeing.
Justify the importance of working in partnerships with families and colleagues to support children’s positive behaviour in early childhood and primary school settings. 
Incorporate diverse socio-cultural perspectives when designing contextually, linguistically and culturally appropriate approaches to guide children’s prosocial learning in educational settings. 
Critically analyse theories, approaches, models and practices for learning prosocial behaviours.
Identify methods to plan and monitor children’s behaviour in collaboration with families and colleagues.
Design safe, equitable and stable learning environments that promote relationships with others, connectedness and belonging, play and interactions to enhance positive childhood experiences.
Critique the efficacy of pedagogical approaches to identify strategies that promote secure, respectful and reciprocal relationships and children’s prosocial behaviour.
Analyse the role of behaviour guidance policies, frameworks, and documents that seek to strengthen teachers’ practices and educational settings’ responses to children’s engagement in learning and wellbeing.   
Critically reflect on personal assumptions about children’s behaviours to develop a cohesive and ethically sound professional approach to guiding children’s positive behaviours. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Yvette Barton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Yvette Barton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)