Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3030 Medical Microbiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300826 Coordinator Colin Stack Opens in new window Description Infectious diseases worldwide are the most common cause of illness. Medical microbiology is subdivided into four areas: virology, bacteriology, mycology (the study of fungi) and parasitology. The rapid evolution of microbes means that this is an area that does not remain static. This subject has a modern approach to the study of the balance between the host, humans, and the very large army of potential invaders. Students will embark on a journey into the world of pathogenic micro-organisms exploring the molecular mechanisms by which these override host defences leading to disease. Infectious diseases of the human body systems as well those of the immunocompromised and infections contracted in the healthcare setting (nosocomial) are discussed. The theory will be supported with laboratory experience representing diagnostic procedures for the identification of infectious agents. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2022 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5866 - Medical Microbiology NATS 3031 - Medical Microbiology Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Differentiate the mechanisms of infections caused by true pathogens from those caused by opportunistic pathogens
Describe the factors and mechanisms by which the human host is protected from microbial invasion
Understand and apply appropriate biochemical and molecular techniques used in the identification of clinical specimens
Explain the rationale behind the performance of antimicrobial susceptibility tests
Analyse and interpret scientific literature and effectively communicate
Associate the various infectious agents that affect special populations with the conditions that predispose these patients to a particular infection Subject Content 1. Principles and practices of medical microbiology
2. Non-specific and specific (immune system) defence of the human body
3. Principles of the pathogenesis of disease including mechanisms by which microbial agents override the host non-specific and specific defence system to produce disease at the molecular level
4. Diseases of the human body systems and respective aetiological agents
5. Specimen collection techniques for the detection of microbial pathogens
6. Laboratory diagnostic procedures for the isolation, identification and antibiotic sensitivities where applicable of microbial pathogens
7. Molecular techniques and development of new diagnostic capabilities for microbial pathogens
8. Current areas of research interests in medical microbiology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words plus 5 minute presentation 35 N Individual N  Practical Exam 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Quiz 45 minutes 15 N Individual N  Quiz 60 minutes 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Colin Stack Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Colin Stack Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Colin Stack Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Infectious Diseases, Minor (0231) Microbiology, Minor (0105) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)