Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 3014 Creating Criminal Justice Solutions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102713 Coordinator Toby Miles-Johnson Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will consider some of the contemporary issues faced by the criminal justice system and the possible solutions to these real world problems. Using knowledge and skills drawn from their experience and study in their degree, students will be required to explore a critical policing or criminal justice issue and develop potential solutions. The subject aims to develop skills in problem analysis and managing the practical constraints faced by social scientists working in applied criminal justice and policing settings.  Students will identify a critical issue (such as policing domestic violence, police engagement with CALD youth, criminal justice responses to cybercrimes), which they will explore individually and in groups throughout the semester. Students will become familiar with and learn to apply the policy/practice development cycle to identify critical issues, survey existing research and practices, develop alternative strategies for resolving the identified problem, and evaluating the expected outcomes. School Social Sciences Discipline Justice Administration Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects JUST 3004 - Contemporary Issues in Criminal Justice and Policing Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points at Level 1 and 60 credit points at Level 2. Students must be enrolled in programs 1662/1844 Bachelor of Policing, 1719 Bachelor of Policing Studies - Non NSW Police Pathway, 1709 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice, 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work, 1734 Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program), 2767 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws, 6025 Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice and 6029 Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing. Enrolment in the online option of the subject will be limited to students returning to complete their Bachelor of Policing after completing the CSU Associate Degree in Policing Practices. Student enrolment in the subject will be monitored and any students enrolled in the online option who are not in this category will be requested to change their enrolment to an on-campus location. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply problem-solving models to an issue within the field of criminal justice/policing to inform knowledge and understanding of the issue and to facilitate the development of responses to the issue.
Critically evaluate a range of academic, policy and other materials relevant to an issue within the criminal justice/policing field.
Construct coherent reports summarising the issue, identifying factors relevant to its aetiology and providing adequate suggestions for intervention and evaluation.
Demonstrate an understanding of the challenges inherent in developing responses to real world issues. Subject Content This is a capstone subject for the Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (including double degrees), Bachelor of Policing, Bachelor of Policing Studies and Bachelor of Policing (Leadership) pathways. Students undertake an in-depth analysis of an issue relevant to criminal justice/policing, utilising their knowledge, skills and experience of justice processes, practices and policy. They will use academic, policy and other relevant literatures to develop suggested responses to an issue and propose a method of evaluation for their proposed intervention. Students will be introduced to problem solving models and their application to justice processes and practices, and will apply problem solving techniques to address the issue. They will develop a report based on a series of assessments which include a scoping exercise, a policy briefing paper and an evaluation study proposal.
The subject content will vary from year to year as the subject aims to engage students with the critical issues facing the criminal justice system and policing at the time of completing their degrees. In past years, students have considered innovative approaches to policing domestic violence and responding to domestic violence victims?f needs at the time of reporting, strategies for reducing the impact of cybercrime, and programs to enhance the relationships between police and CALD youth. Core research, policy and project management content will be introduced to students by way of online learning. This will include
Public policy and policy making
Research-led practice and evidence-based practice
Problem solving models
Developing policy from research
The nexus between policy and practice
Scoping a research problem
Identifying policy innovations
Evaluating policy and practice innovation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1000 words there is no + or - 10 % 40 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words there is no + or - 10% (divided between the group members) 30 N Group N  Reflection Completion of a Reflective Quiz and a 100 word reflection on self and peer's contribution to the Group Report 30 N Individual N Spring Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 100 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Kate Linklater Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool Hybrid Subject Contact Kate Linklater Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (1709) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law Enforcement Studies, Minor (0308)