Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1040 Introduction to Screen Media (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700325 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description Welcome to the dynamic and evolving world of Screen Media. In this subject you will learn how to analyse and critically evaluate cinema, from classic Hollywood to Arthouse and Australian films, along with a range of compelling documentary, animation, immersive and interactive content from around the globe. You'll reflect on the impact of technology and the different approaches to creating and producing powerful content. Inspired by best practice, you will have the opportunity to plan and create simple, short works of your own using accessible media. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units Equivalent Subjects COMM 1015 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production COMM 1039 - Introduction to Screen Media COMM 1016 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an awareness of the processes and practices of screen media arts production and the interdisciplinary and multi-platform nature of screen media arts production.
Apply creative strategies and technical skills of screen media production in an environment that link them to theories and histories of screen media.
Demonstrate an ability to Critically review a screen media work.
Make a simple screen media work in small groups work using accessible mobile and online tools and critically reflect on the outcome.
Assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content 1. Visual language and conventions.
2. Editing in Screen Media.
3. Sound in Screen Media.
4. Screen media narrative structure, genres and diverse production models.
5. Introduction to Documentary.
6. Australian Screen Media.
7. Asia/Pacific Screen Media.
8. Innovative storytelling for the screen, past present and future.
9. Careers in Screen Media. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 quizzes, 10 questions each 10 N Individual N  Discourse Analysis 1,000 words equivalent 30 N Individual N  Reflection 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words plus screen media work (max 3 mins) 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication (exit only) (7043) Diploma in Communication Extended - Communication (7148) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication Extended - Screen Media (Arts and Production) (7150) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015)