Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7156 Aboriginal Education: Past, Present and Future Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102810 Coordinator Michelle Locke Opens in new window Description This subject builds the capacity of students to work in culturally competent and sensitive ways in relation to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education in primary schools and early childhood settings. It allows for the development of understandings of the similarities and/or diversities of local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander groups including culture, histories, languages and identity. It examines the social and cultural contexts that influence engagement by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children, families and communities. It explores ways of improving engagement through effective early childhood and school culture, curriculum and community approaches. By investigating current approaches for teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children and integrating Aboriginal knowledges, perspectives and culturally sensitive pedagogies into education, the students develop their own practices in providing an inclusive learning environment for all children. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7016 - Classrooms without Borders Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the following programs:
1781 Master of Teaching (Primary),
1783 Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years),
1784 Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years),
1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary), 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood),
1651 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Primary Teaching),
1822 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean’s Scholars),
3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary),
6019 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary),
1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) or
6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary). Students enrolled in 1651 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary), 1822 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean’s Scholars), 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) or 1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) must have successfully completed 160 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Students enrolled in 6019 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) or 6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) must have successfully completed 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher) before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and implement the incorporation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories, knowledges and experiences into the curriculum. 
Critically analyse how teachers’ understandings of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander knowledges, cultural issues, languages and identities can impact on the educational outcomes of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners. 
Identify and apply theories of cultural competence and culturally responsive teaching for working effectively with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children, families and communities. 
Evaluate appropriate Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies teaching resources and the importance of consultation with Indigenous communities and external personnel with appropriate qualifications and/or knowledge. 
Explain and apply Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples’ world views and pedagogies. 
Create pedagogically appropriate Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learning and assessment experiences for teaching a range of curriculum areas. 
Understand and apply the knowledge of relationships beyond the early childhood or school community, to engage in a culturally sensitive manner with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander families and communities. Subject Content Local knowledge, histories, languages and identities relating to Aboriginal and Torres Islander peoples. 
Social, cultural (including the connections to community, country and kin) and contextual influences (including media representations) on the identities of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. 
Cultural awareness, competence and sensitivity for providing inclusive educational opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children, families and communities. 
Culturally appropriate pedagogies, resources, assessments, terminology, learning styles and communication.  
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander content in the curriculum.  
The importance of building relationships and using appropriate protocols when working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children, families, workers and communities. 
Current and historical government policies and programs and their impacts on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words (+/- 10%) 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,000 words (+/-10%) 40 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,500 words (+/- 10%) 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Education Studies - Primary English Teaching Specialisation, Major (0187) Education Studies - Primary Mathematics Teaching Specialisation, Major (0188) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189) Education Studies – Early Childhood/Primary Teaching, Minor (0331) Education Studies – Primary Teaching, Minor (0296) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Teacher Education (TEAC)