Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 7007 Financial Planning Research Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200959 Coordinator Peter Humphreys Opens in new window Description Financial Planning Research Project encompasses a major research project and presentation. This equips students with skills to address challenges through research and the ability to apply knowledge developed in earlier subjects of study. This student-centered subject provides supervision of research and analytical practices to enhance skill development and capacity to engage with the problems confronting the financial planning industry. Students will have scope to focus on issues that are of particular concern to the financial planning industry. As an integrating subject, it demands participants bringing their knowledge together and with curiosity to develop recommendations in a format that can showcase their achievements. School Business Discipline Banking, Finance and Related Fields, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2793 Masters of Financial Planning and have successfully completed 80 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the financial planning environment and business communications skills. Learning Outcomes 1. Undertake tests of economic and financial hypotheses using empirical data and summarise their results in a sensible reporting format;
2. Apply quantitative analysis techniques;
3. Implement the basic elements of financial modelling and forecasting;
4. Use computer software to analyse financial problems;
5. Demonstrate ability to construct financial models. Subject Content Introduction to Financial Modelling and Financial Data
Correlation Analysis
Introduction to Simple Regression
Multiple Regressions
Regression with Dummy Variables
Regression with Lagged Explanatory Variables
Univariate Time Series Analysis
Regression with Time Series Variables
Financial Volatility
Revision and writing an Empirical Project Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes presentation and 10 minutes questions 30 N Individual N  Report 4,000 words 70 N Individual N Prescribed Texts - Koop, Gary. 2006, Analysis of Financial Data, John Wiley and Sons Ltd, West Sussex, England. Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Humphreys Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Humphreys Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Master of Financial Planning (2793)