Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 2017 Mental Health in the Community (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500044 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description Mental health service delivery in the community is now the main form of care for people across the lifespan living with mental and emotional disorders. The development of a wider range of pharmacological, psychological and psychosocial treatments has enabled many people to live productively in the community. This subject explores the changes in policy and practice in the development of integrated mental health care and the impact of these changes on the lives of people living with mental illness and their communities. Early intervention, resilience and recovery are concepts explored in this subject in terms of mental health and wellbeing. School Social Sciences Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 2008 - Mental Health in the Community BEHV 2015 - Mental Health in the Community (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the following programs:
7170 - Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health
7188 – Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the theories and discourses underlying contemporary mental health care and treatment.
Understand major mental health disorders and identify a range of interventions and management approaches.
Critically describe the significant policy changes and implications for mental health service delivery.
Recognise the presentation of mental illness and emotional disorders in clients in community settings. Subject Content Mental health: contemporary theory, policy and practice issues.
Mental health literacy - understanding the diagnostic framework; signs and symptoms of mental illness.
Indigenous social and emotional wellbeing.
Cultural understandings of mental health and illness.
Navigating the mental health system.
The lived experience of mental illness.
Interventions in mental health and illness.
Advocacy and systemic change in mental health. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,200 words   40 N Individual N  Quiz 3 x 20 minutes   20 N Individual N  Case Study 1,200 Words  40 N Individual N Autumn Blocks The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2 x 400 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N Spring Blocks The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2 x 400 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Block B Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn Block 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block D Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jack Isherwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block F Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jack Isherwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health (7170)