Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2009 Chinese 201 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102024 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This is a post-beginner subject for intermediate level study of modern Chinese (Mandarin) language and its culture, suitable for Post HSC entry or an equivalent level. This subject is designed for students who take it as part of the Chinese major/sub-major or as an elective subject. It will further develop the Pinyin system and the four core skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing), with a particular focus on core vocabulary and fundamental structures, using approximately 500 simplified Chinese characters. Aspects of culture and language acquisition strategies are explored through research projects. Differentiated learning and assessment tasks and multimedia activities are utilised to cater to non-background and quasi-background learners. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Mandarin Chinese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School).  Note: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Chinese are encouraged to enrol in Chinese 202 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2049 - Language and Communication Skills 2A Chinese Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of 20 credit points of Chinese Language at Level 1 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes demonstrate knowledge of 300 new Chinese characters and compounds;
demonstrate understanding of fundamental syntactic structures of the (Mandarin) Chinese language;
understand and use a core vocabulary and common expressions to carry out routine tasks, and engage in simple conversations;
read and write a range of text types including short messages, postcards, simple notes, and short descriptions;
identify key elements of the traditional and contemporary culture and values of the Chinese-speaking people;
apply this cultural knowledge to develop links with Chinese speakers and their cultural contexts;
apply independent learning strategies to acquire another language. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Weekly language tasks and exercises 30 N Individual Y  Report equivalent to 800-1,200 words in Chinese/English 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam maximum 2 hours in length 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Language and Literature (LANG)