Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 1019 Construction Site Administration (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Robert Paluzzano Opens in new window Description This subject delves into the roles and challenges confronting professionals in construction site management and administration. Through the lens of real-world case studies and project scenarios, students gain an introductory understanding of the diverse responsibilities involved in construction management and site administration. The subject features a specialised task focused on research and problem-solving, targeting sustainability challenges in the construction industry. Alongside developing fundamental research and communication skills, the subject places a strong emphasis on academic and business literacy. Skills in project management and teamwork are also cultivated, preparing students for future academic pursuits and professional engagements in construction site administration and beyond. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and reflect on the diverse roles and responsibilities inherent in construction site management and administration.
Employ information literacy skills to investigate and evaluate construction issues, considering alternative approaches.
Advocate for innovative and sustainable solutions to real-world construction problems based on sound reasoning and evidence.
Demonstrate proficiency in academic business literacy skills, as well as effectively communicate research outcomes clearly and professionally in visual and verbal presentations.
Plan, manage, and actively participate in team-based project, focusing on effective collaboration and project management. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 500 words 20 N Individual N  Portfolio 1000 words per person 30 N Group N  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Viva Voce 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)