Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 7002 Greenhouse Control Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301359 Coordinator Jing He Opens in new window Description This subject develops an understanding of the leading controlling systems for protected cropping in low, medium and high-tech greenhouses. The main topics are: the integration of hardware and software in a range of different protected cropping systems, management of the aerial environment (e.g. manageable parameters and greenhouse climate engineering, radiation management, energy sources and distribution systems, ventilation, air conditioning and cooling systems, screens, carbon dioxide-sources and distribution), and management of the hydroponic environment (factors, tools, control of water and nutrient balance, water quality, salinity effects). The subject emphasises computing skills, calculation, and analysis that are applicable to a range of different greenhouse control systems. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in postgraduate course Assumed Knowledge Students entering this subject should have knowledge of one of the following subject areas: horticultural production systems; environmental sustainability analytics; computing and technological applications; marketing principles and business management. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Explain the objectives of greenhouse control systems and their effective application and management in Australian and overseas protected cropping.
Articulate key challenges and opportunities facing the future development of hardware and software suitable for protected cropping.
Appraise principles in analysing and integrating the greenhouse control systems in protected cropping industry.
Apply computing skills, calculation, and analysis for a range of different greenhouse control systems.
Evaluate the greenhouse control systems in Australia in comparison to advances in international greenhouse control systems.
Communicate the role of greenhouse control systems in contributing to the wider environmental protection, social benefits and business prosperity. Subject Content Hardware systems in low, medium and high-tech greenhouses
Software systems in low, medium and high-tech greenhouses
Management of the aerial environment such as manageable parameters and greenhouse climate engineering, radiation management, energy sources and distribution systems, ventilation, air conditioning and cooling systems, screens, CO2-sources and distribution
Management of the hydroponic environment (e.g. factors, tools, control of water, and nutrient balance, water quality, salinity effects)
The integration of hardware and software in different protected cropping systems
Future global innovations of greenhouse control systems and their use for Australian protected cropping Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Three online quizzes of 60 minutes each including multiple
choice and short answer questions 30 N Individual N  Report One practical report (1,000 words) 15 N Group N  Presentation 15 minutes 15 N Group N  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Jing He Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Protected Cropping (3773) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Protected Cropping (3772) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Master of Science (3749)