Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2040 Physical Activity, Nutrition and Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401411 Coordinator Andrew Bennie Opens in new window Description From 2020 this subject replaces 400892 - Physical Activity, Nutrition and  Health. This subject examines the interdependence between physical activity, nutrition and health and the role of key lifestyle behaviours in improving health outcomes, longevity, and quality of life. Throughout this theoretical and practical subject, students explore personal and socio-cultural health issues, and identify how these health issues can be addressed in a proactive, holistic, and sustainable manner at an individual and population level. School Health Sciences Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HLTH 1007 - Nutrition Physical Activity Mental Health HLTH 2019 - Physical Activity Nutrition and Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4659 - Bachelor of Health Science (Personal Development, Health and Physical Education), 4742 - Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary), 4747 - Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education), 4791 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 4792 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education, 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Describe the nature, and justify the choice of Australia’s health priorities in relation to nutrition, physical activity and health.
Create, discuss and analyse scenarios that illustrate how physical activity and dietary choices are influenced by cultural and social values.
Evaluate personal actions and support strategies in response to personal health challenges.
Evaluate the nature of the relationship between physical activity, nutrition and health from a socio-cultural perspective.
Examine and reflect on the social inequities impacting on physical activity, nutrition and health across the lifespan.
Analyse, evaluate and implement the latest research evidence and guidelines within and between physical activity, nutrition and health. Subject Content Australian national health priorities and policies
National physical activity, sedentary behaviour and nutrition guidelines 
Promoting lifelong physical activity and positive health behaviours
Socio-cultural issues, current research and relationships between physical activity, nutrition and health
Strategies to promote lifelong healthy attitudes and practices Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    End-of-session Exam 60 minutes 40 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sarah Kennedy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (4792) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Physical Activity and Health, Minor (0257) Secondary PDHPE Education, Major (0356)