Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3032 Medical Science Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300892 Coordinator Bill Price Opens in new window Description Students will undertake a short research project specific to the field of Medical Science. This will involve undertaking a review of the literature and generating appropriate hypotheses that will subsequently be tested and analysed. Findings will be presented orally and as a written manuscript. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6140 - Biomolecular Science Project NATS 3039 Science Research Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3577 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3673 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3674 Bachelor of Medical Science (Nanotechnology) or 3682 Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced). Successful completion of 80 credit points at Level 2 or 3.Students must have a GPA of 5.5 or above. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse literature relevant to a specific issue in medical science.
Generate hypotheses and plan appropriate methods for testing.
Gather and analyse scientific data.
Communicate work in appropriate written and oral scientific formats.
Justify methodological approach, and interpretation of findings to a scientific audience. Subject Content There is no formal content for this subject as the projects undertaken will vary according to the expertise of staff and interests of the students.
Students will choose project topics in consultation with academic staff and with the oversight of the subject Coordinator and Director of Academic Program.
1. Identification of project
2. Literature search and review
3. Development of research aims
4. Preparation of a risk assessment in the appropriate format
5. Conduction of research work
6. Preparation of a research report
7. Presentation of a poster Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review Max 2000 words 20 N Individual   Participation   20 N Individual   Oral Presentation 20 mins 20 N Individual   Written Report on Project 3000-5000 words approx 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)