Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3112 Indigenous Methodologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102850 Coordinator Corrinne Sullivan Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to Indigenous research methodologies. It will develop the conceptual and theoretical knowledge of Indigenist, decolonial and anti-racist research methodologies to research with Indigenous peoples, and research that is of significance to Indigenous Australians. The subject also addresses ethical considerations and processes providing students with the skills and knowledge to engage in ethical research praxis. School Social Sciences Discipline Indigenous Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 1060 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the ethical research processes and practices relating to research with Indigenous peoples and/or communities.
Explain the principles of a range of Indigenous research methodologies appropriate for application in research with Indigenous peoples, or matters related to Indigenous Australia.
Reflect on the role as an Indigenous or non-Indigenous researcher or practitioner undertaking research or work with Indigenous people/communities/subject matter.
Analyse the major social, political and scholarly influences that have underpinned the development of Indigenous research methodologies.
Apply the principles of current Australian research guidelines and codes of conduct. Subject Content Standpoint and Decolonisation
Critical self-reflection
Indigenous principles in research
Western research and Indigenous peoples, communities, and cultures
Decolonising frameworks for research with Indigenous Australian peoples
Indigenous Methodologies and Methods
Data sovereignty and Intellectual Property
Ethics and Research Practice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1000 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Indigenous Studies, Minor (0263) Social Research, Minor (0259) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)