Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3026 Movement and Skill Analysis Credit Points 10 Coordinator Kylie Steel Opens in new window Description This subject examines the scientific basis for movement and sports skill development. An understanding of the principles of movement and motor skill and how they apply to performance is examined through a range of movement tasks required for track and field athletics and some team sports. Laboratory activities will focus upon the basic movement tasks of throwing, jumping, balancing, striking, running and rotary activities. An examination of the instruments used in efficient movement analysis is undertaken. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Unit, students will be able to: Examine the anatomical, physical and mechanical principles which underlie movement
Demonstrate video analysis techniques to evaluate the motor skill performance of athletes 
Apply scientific principles to improve motor skill performance in a variety of sporting contexts Subject Content Revision of skeletal and muscular systems.
Movement principles: balance, force, levers, motion, momentum; associated with track and field athletics and some team sports.
Mechanical factors affecting motion in sport: friction, air, water resistance, gravity, impact, spin, elasticity.
Application of movement principles through practical sessions in a range of sports.
Evaluation of skill performance – isolating specific motor patterns, determining and applying movement principles (coaching points), classifying skill to enhance performance, learning movement skills.
Cinematography – use of videos for efficient movement analysis of sporting skills.
Practice and coaching considerations to enhance the acquisition and development of skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Poster 500 words 20 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes + 500 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1000 words + content 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kylie Steel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (4792) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Other Health (HLTH) Secondary PDHPE Education (Further Studies), Major (0357)