Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 1027 Forensic Science (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700330 Coordinator Grant Boyd Opens in new window Description This subject aims to give students a basic understanding of scientific methodology as it applies to the collection, analysis and interpretation of forensic evidence. Students are introduced to a range of crime scene investigation methods and analysis methods that are used with various types of forensic evidence. The concept of individualisation is introduced and the importance of this concept in forensic science is explained. Case studies are used to explain the concepts discussed in this subject. The role of human factors is discussed, together with the importance of critically evaluating forensic evidence and the means by which it was obtained. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 1008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled at the College. Students in extended programs must pass 40 CPs of preparatory subjects prior to enrolling in this unit Assumed Knowledge Students must be enrolled at the College.  Extended students need to have passed 40 CPs of preparatory subjects in order to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Identify physical evidence and determine its significance and value.
Explain the use of basic scientific methodology as it applies to the collection, analysis and interpretation of forensic evidence.
Describe the basic principles of collecting and conserving forensic evidence and give examples of standard procedures for maintaining evidence integrity and continuity.
Apply identification concepts and methodologies to the collection, analysis and interpretation of evidence.
Describe the value of trace evidence to forensic investigations, and explain the ways in which it may be collected and analysed.
Evaluate case studies to illustrate a range of possible deficiencies in the way in which forensic evidence may be collected, analysed and interpreted.
Critically evaluate the role of expert witnesses in the justice system.
Communicate the results of forensic investigation correctly in written form, using an appropriate language style placing the findings in context of the forensic investigation. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 1000 words in total over the practicals (performed during the practicals 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hrs 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Phillip Newman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Science (exit only) (7084) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)