Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7033 Intellectual Property Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200980 Coordinator Sarah Hook Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction and overview of the legal principles of intellectual property law in Australia. Students will consider the nature of intellectual property, the legal framework which contains it, and the ways in which it can be protected. The modules will cover the four major intellectual property regimes of trademarks, copyright, designs, and patents as well as issues relating to traditional knowledge of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. Students will research the theoretical underpinnings of Intellectual Property Rights and whether they are fit for purpose in contemporary society. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 2824 Master of Laws must have successfully completed the prerequisite subject LAWS 7027 Legal Philosophy and Methodology and LAWS 7078 Principles of Private Law
Students enrolled in 2826 Juris Doctor must have successfully completed the prerequisite subject LAWS 7027 Legal Philosophy and Methodology and LAWS 7047 Contracts Co-requisite(s) - Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3032 Intellectual Property Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the fundamental principles of intellectual property law.
Apply principles of intellectual property law to complex factual circumstances or problems.
Communicate fundamental legal intellectual property advice creatively and accurately.
Apply research skills and critically evaluate the theoretical underpinnings of Intellectual Property Subject Content Overview of Intellectual Property Law
Copyright
Designs
Patents
Trademarks
Issues in relation to traditional knowledge for Indigenous Communities
Current developments and selected policy and/or international issues
Theoretical debates in Intellectual Property Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Poster 1 page 10 N Individual N  Report 2500 words 35 N Individual N  Participation During class over the semester 10 N Individual N  Viva Voce 20 minutes 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sarah Hook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)