Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1047 Advanced Engineering Physics 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301334 Coordinator Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window Description This subject will be offered at Engineering Innovation Hub - Hassall St, Parramatta campus.  The aim of this subject is to introduce students to the conceptual, mathematical and practical aspects of the following topics in advanced engineering physics, viz: vectors, linear and circular motion, photons, electrons and atoms, Newtons laws of motion, work and kinetic energy, dynamics of rotational motion, fluid dynamics, thermodynamics, periodic motion and waves/acoustics. The content will be delivered via a combination of lectures, tutorials and hands-on practicals in order to develop the growth of theoretical and applied engineering physics knowledge. This will provide students with a solid foundation for their engineering studies. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1011 - Engineering Physics
ENGR 1013 - Engineering Physics Assumed Knowledge HSC Physics and HSC Mathematics Extension 1 (not General Mathematics). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and apply System Internationale (SI) units.
Identify and solve problems by applying the laws and principles of engineering physics.
Plan, conduct and document experiments performed in the laboratory.
Interpret the results of experiments against the theory including the estimation of experimental uncertainties. Subject Content Units, Physical Quantities and Vectors
Motion along a straight path
Motion in two and three dimensions
Newton's Laws of motion
Work and energy applications
Momentum, impulse and collisions
Rotation and dynamics of rigid bodies
Temperature and heat
Periodic motion and mechanical waves Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2 hours per practical 15 N Individual N  Quiz 40 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 5 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 5-10 problems 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) (3771) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)