Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7026 Forensic Research 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301129 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window Description This subject provides the basic framework and methodology required for planning and executing forensic research. The subject encompasses the scientific methods, practical tools and organizational skills important for implementing independent and original forensic research at an international level. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Master of Forensic Science, the Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science, or the Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of general science as obtained via an undergraduate science degree (with completion of chemistry and biology subjects highly recommended). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand research project management responsibilities with respect to health and safety and research ethics on a local and global level.
Appreciate scientific methods underpinning forensic research.
Effectively review research literature, formulate hypotheses and design scientific experiments.
Critically analyse and interpret experimental research data.
Apply critical and lateral thinking skills to independent forensic research.
Effectively communicate and transfer forensic research knowledge using skills developed for report writing and presentation. Subject Content 1. Scientific Research Methods
2. Research Project Management
3. Undertaking a Literature Review
4. Experimental Methods for Hypothesis Testing
5. Experimental Design
6. Data Collection
7. Basic Statistical Methods and Data Presentation
8. Report Writing and Scientific Publications
9. Conference Presentations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam Not specified 100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)