Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 2002 Community Work & Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101632 Coordinator Michael Houlbrook Opens in new window Description This subject introduces theories and skills in community work and community development. There will be an exploration of the range of ways the term "community" is used and an analysis of the assumptions, values, goals and visions behind community work will be discussed. The subject will explore the breadth and scope of community work at a local, state and global level. The subject will provide an opportunity to develop an understanding of the environmental, political, economic and cultural issues relevant to community work practice. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects WELF 1001 - Community Work and Community Development Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the notion of 'community'.
Apply theories and practice models used in community work.
Outline the skills required for effective community work practice.
Articulate an awareness of the construction and assumptions underpinning current practices of community development. Subject Content What is community work/ community development?
Ideologies, values and visions underlying community work.
Theories informing community work.
Models of community work practice - community development, social planning, community and social action. Applications in a Social Justice framework.
Skills required in community work and community development practice.
Community work in a globalised world.
Models of community work practice - community development, social planning, community and social action. Applications in a Social Justice framework. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 500 words (nominal - this item may be a creative and variable product) 20 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Michael Houlbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Michael Houlbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michael Houlbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Child and Community, Major (0045) Child and Community, Minor (0045) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)