Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7016 Introduction to Epidemiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401076 Coordinator Dafna Merom Opens in new window Description Epidemiology is the study of the distribution and determinants of disease and other health-related conditions in populations, and the application of this study to the control of health problems. Epidemiology encompasses a broad range of activities fundamental to the health sciences. The course is aimed to equip students with the ability to understand and critically appraise evidence from the health sciences used in the formulation of clinical interventions, assessments of population disease burden, and development of health policy. Students will be taught the fundamental concepts and principles of epidemiology and will be given the opportunities through exercises and tutorials to apply these concepts and principles to case studies from current epidemiological research and practice. School Health Sciences Discipline Epidemiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 7015 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge High school mathematics (arithmetic, formulas and algebra, reading graphs). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Calculate and interpret measures of morbidity and mortality, and measures of association (including relative and attributable risk).
Discuss the strengths and weaknesses of the main types of epidemiological study design
Assess confounding or effect measure modification in epidemiological data
Assess the likely impact of bias and confounding on measures of association
Relate concepts of confounding, effect measure modification, and mediation within a putative causal pathway for a given health outcome
Critically appraise an observed association between an exposure and outcome using a hierarchy of evidence
Discuss the epidemiologic rationale underlying population and individual disease prevention strategies
Discuss the inter-relationships between host, agent, and environment in infectious disease epidemiology
Summarise the requirements of population-based screening and public health surveillance
Summarise current debates and challenges in epidemiology Subject Content 1. Measures of disease frequency
2. Measures of association
3. Study designs used in epidemiological research
4. Error in epidemiological studies: bias and confounding
5. Distinguishing causation from association
6. Disease prevention
7. Population screening
8. Epidemics, outbreaks and clusters
9. Public health surveillance
10. Current debates and challenges in epidemiology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 words 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 500 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Complementary Therapies (CMPL) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4718) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Health Science (4701) Graduate Certificate in Public Health (4705) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Aged Care Management (4757) Graduate Diploma in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4717) Graduate Diploma in Digital Health (4778) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management (4777) Graduate Diploma in Occupational Health and Safety (4779) Graduate Diploma in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4762) Graduate Diploma in Public Health (4704) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Public Health (4702) Master of Science (3749) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Ag, Env and Related (AGEN) Other Health (HLTH) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Public Health (PUBH) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021)