Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1016 Different Ways of Being in the World: Introduction to Social Anthropology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102344 Coordinator Helena Onnudottir Opens in new window Description The key and foundational focus of Social Anthropology is the relationship between people and their cultures. This subject provides an introduction to key concepts, methods and theories of classical and contemporary Social Anthropology. It will guide the students to an informed and critical understanding of the nature and extent of human diversity and differences, as well as the similarities which unite us as people.  The subject has two parts. The first part introduces students to the history and scope of Social Anthropology through selected work of some classical anthropologists, introducing key concepts and conceptual frameworks. The second part is designed around selected case studies of Indigenous Peoples in Australia, the Asia Pacific, and the Americas, providing the students with critical insight into the application of anthropological theory and the epistemological contribution of the discipline of Social Anthropology. School Social Sciences Discipline Anthropology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the concepts and theories foundational to Social Anthropology.
Discuss diversity and similarity across human cultures.
Apply foundational Anthropological theory to case studies. Subject Content What makes us human? Key concepts in the study of human society
Understanding and Analysing Cultural Diversity and Differences.
Foundational Anthropological Theories.
Social and Cultural Analysis in Anthropology.
Conducting Fieldwork: What is Ethnography?
Changing Worlds: Past and Present Anthropological Approaches.
Colonial/Post-Colonial cultures and societies
Peoples and the State: Past and Present. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 questions each 25 N Individual Y  Essay Essay 1,500 words
Essay Plan (optional) 500 words 45 N Individual Y  Final Exam 500 words each 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Helena Onnudottir Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Helena Onnudottir Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anthropology, Major (0002) Anthropology, Minor (0002) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)