Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 3014 Introduction to Building Fire Safety Credit Points 10 Coordinator Md Kamrul Hassan Opens in new window Description This subject provides the foundations in fire safety engineering principles and the techniques and tools used in building fire safety design. Students learn the key principles of fire and heat transfer, building material and cladding systems’ behaviours in fire, fire testing methods, fire-damage assessment methods, and concepts of performance-based building fire safety design. Using examples of fire engineering briefs and reports, students expand their knowledge and skills in real-world contexts. It also builds the skills required for a work-ready graduate and allows the student to plan, undertake and report on a specific aspect of practice in the context of their work. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Basic mathematics and Physics as taught at HSC level is required. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate understanding of the basic principles of fire dynamics and fire safety design in building.
Analyse fire properties of building materials.
Apply regulations, standards and fire safety principles to different building structures and materials.
Assess active and passive fire protection systems to reduce fire hazards in a building.
Interpret fire engineering briefs and reports. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 x Online Quizzes, 30 minutes (per Quiz) 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1500 words equivalent 30 N Individual N  Report 3000 words equivalent 40 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Md Kamrul Hassan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Building (BLDG) Building Surveying, Testamur Major (T088)