Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7022 Ethics in Health Research Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400975 Coordinator Evan Atlantis Opens in new window Description This subject equips students to explore ethical issues impacting on the conduct of research in the health setting. Students will critically explore ethical issues and their implications in health research, understand the process of gaining Human Research Ethics Approval for research, gain practical experience of developing an ethically sound research plan and application for human ethics approval. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify ethical issues in health research related to dealing with human participants.
Describe ethical issues related to research conduct.
Demonstrate knowledge of the process for gaining approval to conduct research with human subjects.
Plan research demonstrating ethical conduct.
Develop an application for human ethics approval.
Demonstrate highly developed skills as a self-reliant learner to effectively communicate in groups and teams. Subject Content Human ethical issues - confidentiality, beneficence, veracity, non-maleficience
Ethics in dealing with human participants
Ethics in research conduct
Strategies for dealing with ethical issues in human research
Approval for research involving humans Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Assessment 1: Critical response to ethics scenario 2,000 words 50 N Individual   Assessment 2: Development of an application for human ethics approval 2,250 words 50 N Individual   Assessment 3: Asynchronous discussion board participation 250 words each S/U Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Master of Science (3749) Nursing (NURS)