Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7007 Community and Social Services Translation (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101845 Coordinator Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop skills in Community Translation (also known as Public Service Translation), which focuses on facilitating written communication between public services and community members who do not have a good command of mainstream language(s). The aim of the subject is for students to develop skills in producing target texts in styles appropriate to specific groups and communities, and to the content and function of the source text. The subject also aims to develop skills in researching and using appropriate specialist terminology, editing and revising, and producing camera-ready documents. On the basis of these skills, the subject is to further develop students' ability to reflect upon translation in terms of strategies and appropriateness in relation to the target audience as well as make critical written and oral assessment of relevant translations. The subject will be available, depending on sufficient demand, for Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin, Spanish, Korean, Persian and Vietnamese. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 3387 - Community Translation LGYA 0966 - Community Translation PG Restrictions Students must be bilingual in the language combinations offered by the School. Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Sufficient proficiency in English plus one other language at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Effectively translate texts relevant to their specific communities and audiences;
Translate 250 words of texts in 60 minutes (based on NAATI marking guidelines) into and from English;
Analyse and reflect upon their own translations in terms of translation strategies appropriate to specific groups and communities to develop their own resources for improvement;
Apply the insights of Translation Theory to translation critique as well as to their practice of Community Translation; and
Demonstrate translation and revision skills at a near-professional level of competence. Subject Content 1. Development of general translation skills to and from English.
2. Development of ability to reflect upon students' own translations in terms of translation strategies, and make critical assessment of translations in general.
3. Translation of community information from English into the LOTE of texts relating to health, social security, and other government services as well as relevant private sector services.
4. Translation into English, including extract translation, of personal and official documents such as birth certificate, marriage certificate, driver's licence, and educational qualifications.
5. Translation into English of texts from community-language newspapers and magazines circulating in Australia. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 250 words each or equivalent 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1000-1500  words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 250 words each text, 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)