Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7068 Remedies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201060 Coordinator Adrian Coorey Opens in new window Description This subject examines the nature, goals and principles of private law remedies. Both judicial and non-judicial remedies in Australian private law are examined including the principles of the major common law, equitable, restitutionary, and statutory remedies available to wronged parties in a variety of circumstances. Emphasis is on the analysis of practical and theoretical advantages and disadvantages of various remedies in a culturally diverse society. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7053 LAWS 7072 LAWS 7047
For 2824 Master of Laws students - LAWS 7010 LAWS 7078 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically reflect on common law, equitable, restitutionary, and statutory remedial concepts and their application and effectiveness in contemporary legal practice.
Analyse and solve practical problems and theoretical legal issues independently in order to demonstrate a detailed understanding of the suitability of remedies in various practical situations.
Collaborate effectively and persuasively on complex legal principles, theories and frameworks governing the award of private law remedies across Australian and overseas jurisdictions.
Communicate persuasively and effectively complex knowledge and ideas to expert and non-expert legal audience.
Evaluate the impact on Australia’s culturally diverse society of the dominant culture’s private law remedies. Subject Content The Nature of Remedies 
Self-Help Remedies  
General Principles of Compensation 
Compensation in Equity 
Gain-based Awards – Disgorgement and accounting for profits 
Restitution (the measure of Restitution, Rescission) 
Punishment in Private Law (Exemplary Damages) 
Proprietary Relief 
Specific Relief – General Principles and Specific Performance 
Injunctions with reference to applications by First Nations people for protection of traditional lands and cultural artefacts. 
Declaratory Relief with particular reference to applications by First Nations people for standing 
Delivery Up, Cancellation and Rectification 
Statutory Remedies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 1 page or equivalent 15 N Group Y  Professional Task 3000 words 35 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Covell & Lupton, Principles of Remedies (LexisNexis, 8th ed, 2022) Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Adrian Coorey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Adrian Coorey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Adrian Coorey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Adrian Coorey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)