Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 3017 Invertebrate Biology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300918 Coordinator Uffe Nielsen Opens in new window Description Invertebrates are the most diverse and abundant organisms in aquatic and terrestrial environments. Due to their key role in many ecosystems, biologist E. O. Wilson coined the phrase of invertebrates as the 'little things that run the world'. Besides their ecological importance, many invertebrates are useful to humans, whereas others are harmful to agriculture, human and veterinary health. This subject highlights invertebrate diversity and life histories as well as their key ecological and economic importance. It also includes hands-on laboratory and field studies. This subject is designed for students with career pathways in science (e.g. animal, environmental, forensic and medical sciences) as well as agriculture, environmental management and education. School Science Discipline Biological Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 3018 - Invertebrate Biology NATS 3026 - Forensic Biology Restrictions Students must have completed 120 credit points, with at least 40 credit points at level 2. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of core concepts of biology and/or zoology is desirable. Learning Outcomes Describe invertebrate biodiversity
Compare and contrast invertebrate morphology, anatomy, physiology, development, reproduction and behaviour
Apply acquired knowledge to identify and classify invertebrates
Apply concepts of diversity and abundance through sampling and surveying invertebrate biodiversity in the field
Create an invertebrate collection through catching, identifying, classifying, preserving and presenting specimens
Design and conduct experiments to study the biology of insects and and write these up as a formal report
Identify and evaluate the roles and interactions of invertebrates in the environment
Evaluate morphological, ecological and evolutionary relationships of invertebrates Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practicals 2,000 words 20 N Individual   Intra-session exam 1 hour 20 N Individual   Professional Task 50 specimens 20 N Individual   Final exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)