Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7034 Research Project in Cultural Exchange Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102545 Coordinator Nicholas Ng Opens in new window Description In this subject you will undertake a research/development project in relation to cultural exchange with China.  This may include professional involvement in a cultural exchange activity and/or a research project on an issue relating to cultural exchange.  The activity will include researching the literature and interpreting this in relation to the chosen task in a research/project report.  There is no class work.  Each student will be supervised by a member of staff in the School of Humanities and Communication Arts. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Anthropology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 4010 Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 70 credit points in the Master of Chinese Cultural Relations or the Master of Cross-cultural Relations. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse historical and current Australian and Chinese cultural traditions that may influence current cross-cultural exchange activities
Apply theoretical perspectives, knowledge and experience based on working with practitioners to developments in intercultural exchange
Research issues relating to cross-cultural exchanges and events to resolve barriers to effective cultural interaction
Design and implement communication strategies and a business plan in relation to a cultural exchange activity
Develop and evaluate an innovative approach to cross-cultural communication and practice Subject Content Major practical or theoretical research project supported by documentation.
Documentation of project and progress reports. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 12,000 words 100 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)