Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2042 Psychosocial Issues in the Perinatal Period Credit Points 10 Coordinator Susanne Armour Opens in new window Description In this subject students will gain knowledge of the psychosocial risk and protective factors that influence outcomes for women and their babies. Students will explore issues related to perinatal mental health. This will include antenatal and postnatal depression and anxiety, substance misuse, domestic violence and the midwife’s role in supporting women and their families in perinatal grief and loss situations. Through interactive discussions and role play students will strengthen their skills in psychosocial assessment and working in partnership with women and families to explore concerns, facilitate behaviour change in individual and group-based learning contexts and identify effective early intervention strategies and referral pathways.  There will also be a focus on the importance of self-care for midwives. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 3027 - Midwifery Practice – Teaching and Learning Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery. Learning Outcomes Apply a socioecological health care model to determine risk and protective factors that influence outcomes for a woman, her children and family.
Explain the impact of perinatal depression, anxiety and trauma on the woman, her infant and family and the potential consequences for the mother-infant relationship.
Evaluate the impact of domestic/family violence and parental substance misuse on the health and wellbeing of women, infants and families.
Discuss the role of the midwife in managing grief and loss situations for the woman, and her family
Discuss the assessment, planning and implementation of specific midwifery care for women and their neonates with complex psychosocial needs.
Evaluate appropriate early intervention and referral pathways for women experiencing complex psychosocial issues including individual and group-based learning and support.
Critically analyse and discuss adult learning principles and communication skills required by midwives to work in partnership with women, promote health improvement and facilitate behaviour change in complex situations. Subject Content Socio-ecological model
Psychological and social risk factors that influence outcomes for the woman, newborn and family
Family support and other protective factors that influence outcomes for the woman, newborn and family
Perinatal mental health (depression and anxiety)
	
Signs and symptoms of Perinatal mood disorders
Using the EPDS
Treatment & Management
Strategies to support families


Grief and loss
	
Supporting women and their families
Stillbirth/neonatal death, SIDS
maternal grief/ family grief


Trauma
	
Acute, chronic, complex, intergenerational, vicarious
Trauma informed care
Birth interventions and birth trauma


Domestic violence and substance misuse
	
Defining DV and its associated factors
Substance misuse (alcohol and other drugs)
Early intervention strategies and programs
Impact on parenting and childhood outcomes
Child protection


Psychosocial risk assessment and depression screening
Cultural considerations including experiences of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women and families and women and families from migrant and refugee backgrounds
Midwives role in supporting women with complex psychosocial needs
	
Models of care and referral pathways
Working in partnership with women and families in the perinatal period including:
Skills needed to explore to gain a clear understanding of a woman’s concerns or situation; recognising skills and qualities needed in a midwife to work in partnership
Communication skills needed to promote health improvement and facilitate behaviour change in individual and group-based learning contexts
Adult learning principles
Skills in group facilitation
Working in partnership with other professionals to support women and families with complex psychosocial needs


The midwife
	
Clinical supervision and reflective practice
Resilience and self-care Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See  http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1,200 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Susanne Armour Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Nursing (NURS)