Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 7004 Industry Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301361 Coordinator Michelle Mak Opens in new window Description In this unit, students will complete an industry based project under the guidance of an industry partner and a member of the University's academic staff. Using a project based methodology, students will be required to solve a real world problem on behalf of a protected cropping industry partner. Students will develop skills in scoping, planning, implementing, reporting on the industry project; reflecting on what has been learned in the context of their personal and professional development and how this can be used in their future career. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Assumed Knowledge Students entering this subject should have knowledge of one of the following subject areas: horticultural production systems; environmental sustainability analytics; computing and technological applications; marketing principles and business management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design a project to assist an industry partner to solve a real life problem.
Collect and analyse data for the protected cropping project.
Develop relationships and rapport with industry and academic professionals.
Manage an industry based project to deliver outcomes within the specified
Propose innovative solutions to solve uncertain/unforeseen factors using negotiation and
Synthesise information from a variety of academic and industry sources.
Communicate the project results via a presentation and report to the industry. Subject Content Design features of a project undertaken for a protected cropping industry partner.
Reporting on progress to an industry partner to meet appropriate milestones
Management of an industry project
Industry project protocols and methods
Ethical conduct in industry projects
Financial analysis and project budget
Communication and networking
Personal and professional development ? including development of critical and reflective abilities Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students will need to complete a Risk Assessment form for approval of their supervisor before commencing field work for this subject. Students involving research on human participants will need Human Ethics approval from their supervisor and the Subject Coordinator before commencing field data collection. Other approvals may be needed for specific projects. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation	 10 minutes 20 N Individual   Report (Lit. Review & Project Update) 2,000 words 30 N Individual   Report: Written Project Report 3,000 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Agriculture, Testamur Major (T108) Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Graduate Certificate in Protected Cropping (3773) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Protected Cropping (3772) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Master of Science (3749) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068)