Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7001 Advanced Applied Mechanics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301010 Coordinator Baolin Wang Opens in new window Description Applied mechanics deals with the mechanical responses of structural components under various loading and support conditions. This subject will introduce the theory of elasticity and study the bending, buckling and vibration behaviours of beams, plates and shells and their associated applications in engineering practices. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Structural Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Students should have prior knowledge of strain, stress and deflection analysis of simple structures as well as knowledge of energy principle for structural analysis. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the bending, buckling and vibration behaviours of structural components;
Derive the governing equations for the bending, buckling and vibration of structural components;
Solve the governing equations for simple bending, buckling and vibration cases of beams, plates and shells;
Use finite element package to solve the governing equations numerically for complex cases;
Apply the buckling and vibration analysis to solve practical engineering problems. Subject Content 1. Introduction to theory of elasticity; bending of beams;
2 Introduction to buckling of structures; analytical solutions for simple column buckling cases;
3. Introduction to vibration of structures; analytical solutions for simple beam free vibration cases;
4. Introduction to thin plate theory; Governing equations for the bending, buckling and vibration of plates;
5. Analytical solutions for simple plate bending, buckling and vibration cases;
6. Analysis of buckling and vibration of composite plates;
7. Introduction to thin shell theories;
8. Analytical solutions for simple shell bending, buckling and vibration cases;
9. Introduction to numerical methods for bending, buckling and vibration analysis of structures;
10. Applications of numerical methods to solve complex buckling and vibration cases for beams, columns and plates. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour each 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 55 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 2 pages each 5 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Baolin Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)