Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3003 Contemporary Issues in Public Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401194 Coordinator Catharine Fleming Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on contemporary issues in public health. These priority concerns include chronic and age-related disease, communicable disease, mental health, sexual and reproductive health, child and maternal health, indigenous health, migrant health and environmental health. You will bring together your knowledge in public health, epidemiology, sociology and economics to identify and evaluate social and environmental factors that affect these health issues.  By evaluating effectiveness of current public policy you will make recommendations for policy and program development to improve outcomes for contemporary health issues. These topics will be explored in national and international contexts. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 2016 AND
PUBH 2010 Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of public health, social determinates of health and the Australian health care system; and the fundamentals of epidemiology. Learning Outcomes Identify and evaluate the relative contributions of economic, social and environmental factors affecting health in the contemporary world.
Compare and contrast contemporary health issues in national and international contexts.
Examine how epidemiology and big data shapes policy decisions and contributes to evidence-based public health practice in the contemporary era.
Analyse the different roles/approaches to public health intervention to address contemporary health issues.
Critically appraise the effectiveness and role of public health policy in the contemporary era using evidence-based practice.
Hypothesise public health intervention (policy or program) to improve outcomes for a contemporary health issues. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 10 consecutive weekly one hour tutorial classes. 10 N Individual Y  Literature Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)