Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 2010 Law of Business Organisations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200183 Coordinator Sam Hossain Opens in new window Description This subject deals with legal issues concerning the creation and control of companies and compares this structure with other forms of business organisations, such as joint venture, partnership, trusts and sole traders. This subject will provide students with an appreciation of partnership, and companies and a practical operation of a scheme of corporate regulation in the Australian federal system. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 1004 OR
LAWS 1001 Restrictions Students enrolled in 2502 Bachelor of Laws (Non graduate entry) are required to seek permission from their program Advisor prior to enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise the various forms of business organisations.
Explain the concept and principles of partnerships and trusts, including the liabilities of partners under contract, tort, and criminal law, and the duties and liabilities of trustees..
Describe the practical operation of a scheme of corporate regulation in the Australian federal system.
Apply company law concepts and principles to analysing and solving key contemporary legal issues concerning the creation and control of companies. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Three quizzes, 5% each, the best two will be considered for the final grade. 10 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,500 words  30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours  50 Y Individual Y  Participation ongoing throughout semester 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Thillagavathy Rajaretnam Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Bachelor of Accounting (2783) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Business Regulation, Governance and Compliance, Major (0165) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Law (LAWS) Management, Testamur Major (T043) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)