Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 2018 Water Supply Systems Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301424 Coordinator Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window Description In this subject students will examine the quality of water and the standards to be met for the supply of water that is fit for its intended use. The design of treatment processes to meet these standards as well as principles underlying the hydraulic design of the treatment systems are examined in the context of both urban and remote rural communities. Students will also explore alternative supply systems and their merits and demerits, including economic viability, in order to gain design and analysis skills with respect to various water supply systems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Water and Sanitary Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) CIVL 2002 OR
ENGR 1050 AND
CIVL 2003 Co-requisite(s) CIVL 3011 Equivalent Subjects CIVL 4014 Water and Wastewater Treatment Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse alternate sources of water that can be used to supply water for its intended use.
Design unit processes and their sequence to produce water that is fit for its intended use for both urban and remote rural communities.
Design associated infrastructure for supplying water for its intended use.
Evaluate the sustainability of reuse, recycle and disposal options for the waste generated from treatment processes.
Demonstrate communication and collaboration skills in working with others in an ethical and respectful manner to produce professional analyses and reports in designing and evaluating sustainable water supply systems. Subject Content 1. Sources of water and its quality
2. Fit for the purpose water quality guidelines/ standards
3. Alternative sources of water including, surface water, groundwater, stormwater and recycled water.
4. Conventional Water Treatment Processes
5. Transmission and distribution of water
6. Advanced water treatment processes
7. Impact of changing climate on water sources and water availability
8. Reuse/ recycle/ disposal of water treatment plant sludge/ waste. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook In-class submissions 20 N Individual N  Report 5000 words including figures, tables and pictures 25 N Group N  Report 1000 words including tables, figures and pictures 5 N Group N  Final Exam 3 hours 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Sustainability Engineering, Concentration (0281) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129) Water and Environment, Concentration (0118) ​Sustainability Engineering, Minor (0281) ​Water and Environment, Minor (0118)