Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 2017 Sustainable Construction Materials Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301399 Coordinator Alan Todhunter Opens in new window Description This subject focusses on the suitability for purpose (performance, durability, sustainability and standards and regulatory compliance) of building and construction materials. Students investigate the physical properties and behaviour of various timbers, metals, concretes, polymers, new materials and composite systems, and their durability within Australia's diverse environments. Students also consider sustainable and eco-friendly construction materials in life-cycle assessment of construction systems and materials selection at the design stage. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Structural Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects CIVL 2009 - Material Science in Construction Assumed Knowledge Content covered in Residential Building. Learning Outcomes Characterise properties of different building materials and their application in building construction.
Analyse how and why materials degrade in the built environment.
Assess the environmental impacts associated with materials selection for construction.
Assess the suitability of materials in building components used in buildings.
Apply Australian standards and regulations relating to eco-friendly and durable buildings. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1200 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz x3 (10% each) 45 minutes per Quiz. 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Alan Todhunter Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alan Todhunter Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Building Surveying, Testamur Major (T088) Building, Testamur Major (T149) Civil Engineering (CIVL)