Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3022 Disability and Sexuality Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102848 Coordinator Robyn North Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the mutual fields of sexuality studies and disability studies by employing the critical lenses of queer, disability, and feminist theory to interrogate the privileging and ownership by mainstream culture of sex. By illuminating how people with physical, emotional, and cognitive disabilities experience romance, love, emotional intimacy and physical connection, students will explore how insufficient sexuality supports create diminished agency, excessive vulnerability, lack of access and "otherness" for disabled people. Students will ground their critical thinking by examining how they have constructed sexuality and disability norms based on their values, beliefs and views of these two intersecting and often taboo topics. Students will be encouraged to appreciate the importance of sexuality in the lives of people with disabilities and view the expression of our sexuality, sexuality agency, and access to sexual health as a basic human right. School Social Sciences Discipline Care for the Disabled Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Distinguish relevant concepts including sexual literacy, sexual justice and sexual voice within sexuality and disabilities scholarship.
Critically reflect on comfort, skills and knowledge through the lens of sexuality and disability.
Evaluate the sexuality model, such as the Circles of Sexuality as it applies to sexuality in everyday life for people with disabilities. Subject Content The Circles of Sexuality - an integrative, holistic practice model of sexual health.
Sexual justice & activism ? scholarly and professional approaches to sexuality as a human right.
Role of sexual well-being advocates ? Embracing frameworks of strengths, perspective and positive sexuality to support clients with a disability.
Countering the medicalisation of disability and reproduction-focus of sexuality. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 quizzes / 10 questions each 20 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robyn North Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Disability Studies, Major (0252) Gender Studies, Minor (0295) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)