Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 2007 Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301408 Coordinator Ricky Spencer Opens in new window Description n this subject, you will develop the practical skills and underlying scientific knowledge required to address environmental questions across natural and built environments. Through practicals, workshops, and an independent research project you will learn how to design a monitoring and assessment program to characterise different environment situations, interpret data and propose management solutions to contemporary environmental challenges. The subject will introduce a range of topics, including the application of geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing methodologies, environmental sensors, the internet of things and citizen science approaches to understand and improve environmental situations, and provides opportunities to research a chosen, real-world topic to assess an aspect of environmental sustainability. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain different concepts and approaches to environmental monitoring and assessment in the context of natural and built environments.
Critique monitoring data and environmental reports that utilise a range of environmental indicators including soil, air, water, microbial.
Apply different techniques and approaches for environmental monitoring.
Evaluate environmental data to assess the current state of the environment and manage risk in the context of environmental sustainability.
Communicate findings in report format and orally from research on a selected issue covering current regulatory requirements and best environmental management practices. Subject Content 1. Why monitor and assess the environment?
2. Key parameters for monitoring and assessment.
3. Framework for designing a monitoring and assessment program, including field sampling considerations, data collection and statistical analysis.
4. Introduction to Geographic Information Systems.
5. Introduction to remote sensing for environmental monitoring and change detection.
6. Field application of sensors, Internet of things and drones for environmental assessment and management.
7. Plant, animal, microbial and soil monitoring.
8. River and catchment monitoring.
9. Air quality monitoring.
10. The role of citizen science/crowd sourcing in environmental monitoring.
11. Selected case studies for environmental impact assessment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 min each 20 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words maximum 20 N Individual N  Report 2000 words maximum 25 N Individual N  Report 3000 words maximum 25 N Group N  Presentation 10 min. 10 N Group N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Ricky Spencer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Sustainability, Tourism and Environment, Major (0305) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)