Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7010 Company Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200433 Coordinator Thillagavathy Rajaretnam Opens in new window Description This subject mainly deals with legal issues concerning various aspects of companies: incorporation, regulation, membership and capital, company management, corporate officers, meetings, relations of the company with outsiders, accounts, reports and other disclosures, arrangements and reconstruction, receivers and winding up, and share acquisition and takeovers. It also considers public policy issues underlying the law in the above areas. Other forms of business organisation, such as partnership, trusts and sole traders, are also dealt with. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7009 or LAWS 7078 Equivalent Subjects - Restrictions Students must be enrolled in:
2824 Master of Laws
2790 Graduate Certificate in Accounting
3775 Graduate Diploma in Information Governance 
3779 Master of Information Governance 
2689 Master of Professional Accounting  
2815 Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise the basic principles of company law.
Describe the practical operation of a scheme of corporate regulation in the Australian federal system.
Recognise how the statutory regime of corporate regulation intersects with common law and equitable developments.
Appraise some of the criticisms of current corporate law in the wider context, for example globalisation, and also be familiar with public policy issues in this area.
Apply his or her understanding of company law concepts to analysing and solving practical problems. Subject Content 1. Various forms of business organisations.
2. Company as a form of business organisation - evolution, types, sources of law, regulatory framework.
3. Registration of a company, pre-registration activities.
4. Dealings with outsiders and liability.
5. Internal management rules, management of a company - Board of Directors and general meeting.
6. Duties of Directors and consequences of breach of duty.
7. Shareholder remedies.
8. Capital and fundraising.
9. Record keeping, disclosures and audit.
10. External administration - receivership, administration and winding up. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 72 Hours 30 N Individual Y  Quiz Three quizzes, 5% each, the best two will be considered for the final grade. 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Participation Ongoing throughout subject 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus Quarter 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact James Paterson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Finance and Tax Law, minor (0344) Graduate Certificate in Accounting (2790) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Law (LAWS) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Laws (2824) Master of Professional Accounting (2689) Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) (2815)