Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 7016 Information Systems for Accountants Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200399 Coordinator Daniel Yeung Opens in new window Description Information Systems for Accountants develops a student’s knowledge of integrated systems, information security, compliance management and business intelligence within organisational frameworks. Students will apply data analytics, risk assessment, and control design through a practical project. The use of data science tools and processes to aid in the analysis of an accounting information system. The curriculum ensures students are well-prepared to navigate the complexities of designing and managing sophisticated accounting information systems across diverse organisational landscapes. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) ACCT 7018 Restrictions Students wishing to enrol in this subject as an elective must gain approval from an Academic program Advisor (Accounting) and must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate an existing accounting information system, the effectiveness of its internal controls, and its ability to provide a level of information security that meets decision-makers information needs.


Utilise data science tools to model different business scenarios, collect, process, and present information cost-effectively to enhance operations and support reporting requirements of an organisation.


Apply data science to extract information from internal and external data sources


Analyse business intelligence and information visualisation techniques to provide useful insights to decision-makers. Critically evaluate an existing accounting information system, the effectiveness of its internal controls, and its ability to provide a level of information security that meets decision-makers information needs. Utilise data science tools to model different business scenarios, collect, process, and present information cost-effectively to enhance operations and support reporting requirements of an organisation. Apply data science to extract information from internal and external data sources Analyse business intelligence and information visualisation techniques to provide useful insights to decision-makers. Subject Content Documenting Accounting Information Systems. 
Systems Development Activities. 
Database Management Systems and relational data model. 
Controlling Accounting Information Systems. 
Accounting Information Systems applications. 
Business Intelligence and Sustainability Reporting. 
Emerging Technology and Data Analytics. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1 hour per week 30 N Group/Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Daniel Yeung Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Daniel Yeung Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 4 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Graduate Certificate in Accounting (2790) Master of Professional Accounting (2689) Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) (2815)