Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 7014 Occupational Therapy Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400913 Coordinator Rosalind Bye Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is for students to critically apply their knowledge of professional theory, practice, research and evaluation skills to the investigation of an occupational therapy professional issue of interest or concern. Students will apply unobtrusive research methods to investigate their chosen topic. Students develop an extensive knowledge of their chosen topic and critically analyse the implications of their findings in terms of theory, policy and contemporary health care practice.  Students will synthesise their findings into a scholarly research project report and present their findings at a professional-level capstone student conference. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3025 AND
HLTH 3005 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4664 Master of Occupational Therapy. This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of issues and concerns relevant to the occupational therapy profession and occupational therapy clients and consumers. This knowledge will ideally have been gained in part by undertaking several fieldwork experiences in preceding years of the program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Formulate a research problem relevant to occupational therapy theory, practice or reasoning.
Systematically search for and critique a wide range of literature relating to a specific research problem.
Critically examine a range of unobtrusive research methods which may be suitable for investigating the problem and prepare a plan of the project.
Critically analyse ethical issues associated with the conduct of unobtrusive research.
Execute unobtrusive research methods of data collection and analysis appropriate to the project.
Synthesise complex information into an investigative project report that reflects a critical examination of the topic, with recommendations related to future occupational therapy practice, theory, national and international policy.
Present a professional standard conference abstract and presentation.
Work collaboratively and in a self-directed manner with other students to complete the above objectives. Subject Content 1. Contemporary and topical issues relating to occupational therapy practice, theory and professional reasoning.
2. Unobtrusive research methods eg. critical literature review, thematic analysis of public documents, theoretical analysis of case study populations.
3. Ethics of research using unobtrusive methods.
4. Project management skills.
5. Professional Communication skills ? professional and scholarly writing, professional conference presentation skills, abstract writing.
6. Capstone student conference ? preparation and involvement. Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)