Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4035 Smart and Liveable Cities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301423 Coordinator Dharma Hagare Opens in new window Description Students will apply smart and sustainability perspectives to design urban centres. Students will use a range of tools to conduct integrated system analysis for smart and liveable cities. Students work on real world projects including green buildings, blue/green space, sustainable transport and infrastructure, sustainable water management. Though these projects, students will achieve significant edge in their employability. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) CIVL 2002 OR
ENGR 1050 Equivalent Subjects ENGR 4011 Sustainability and Risk Engineering Restrictions Successful completion of 200 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate engineering and sustainability principles and tools in analysing and designing urban centres.
Conduct life cycle assessment and system analyses incorporating risk assessment for sustainability of resources for a given urban centre.
Design urban centres using smart cities principles to enhance liveability and wellbeing.
Justify smart city designs in terms of sustainability principles.
Communicate and collaborate with diverse team members, and key stakeholders in developing innovative designs and recommendations. Subject Content 1. Water, energy and materials conservation
2. Design of sustainable and smart urban centres
3. Application of life cycle analysis to urban centres
4. Sustainable solutions incorporating risk assessment
5. Integrated systems engineering
6. Physical and mental wellbeing of inhabitants
7. Smart cities/ IoT/ Data analytics as applied to urban centres Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Tutorial submissions  13 x in-class submissions  20 N Individual   Project Report 5000 words (including tables, figures and pictures) 25 N Group   Practical Report 1000 words (including tables, figures and pictures) 5 N Group   Final Exam  3 hours 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Sustainability Engineering, Concentration (0281) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129) ​Sustainability Engineering, Minor (0281)