Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3006 Graphic Design: Developing a Personal Portfolio Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102276 Coordinator Dan Johnston Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the development of your industry orientated practice and personal portfolio development. Throughout the previous core subjects and subject pairings you will have developed particular skills and interests that are beginning to define your design practice and your portfolio. The briefs set in this subject offer you the opportunity to specialise further and to develop your portfolio and will, where possible, include live briefs and competitions. You will continue to refine and develop your visual language, material and digital skills, and continue to develop as an independent learner. The subject will culminate in an industry event, where students will have the opportunity to get their portfolios critiqued by design industry representatives. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 2006 OR
DESN 3001 OR
MKTG 2003 OR
MKTG 2003 Restrictions Successful completion of 160 credit points in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Generate creative and appropriate solutions to design briefs that are executed to industry standards
Critique and evaluate your own work in order to develop a design portfolio and a body of work suitable for exhibition
Define your specific disciplinary interests within the broad field of contemporary visual communication
Employ an independent approach to learning and your design practice. Subject Content Online lectures on design practitioners, graduate experiences and portfolio development. 
All seminar discussions will be conducted face to face, on campus. 
All presentations will be conducted face to face, on campus. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Visual work equivalent 2,500 words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio Visual work equivalent 1,500 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dan Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6013) Game Design, Testamur Major (T060) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)