Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0054 Professional Communication Skills for Policing and Justice (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700332 Coordinator Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window Description The ability to communicate efficiently and effectively is crucial in all aspects of professional life. This subject is designed to improve the English proficiency of Policing and Criminal and Community Justice students to enable them to achieve academic success. The subject assists students to comprehend professional texts, identify key ideas and evidence, and identify and apply certain rhetorical moves which are common in academic and professional communication in the fields of Policing and Justice. It also aims to help students to improve grammatical skills that relate to academic writing, summarise information, and understand why, when and how to cite information. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 0030 English for Tertiary Study 1 (UWSCFS)
LANG 0036 Introduction to Academic Communication 1 (UWSCFS)
LANG 0006 Academic English 1 (UWSC)
LANG 0001 Academic Communication 1 (UWSCFS)
LANG 0037 Introduction to Academic Communication 1 (WSTC)
LANG 0019 Communication Skills for Construction Management (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0042 Professional Communication Skills for Engineering (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0012 Academic and Professional Communication (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0034 Essential Skills for Academic Success (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0049 Essential Literacy for Construction Professionals I (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0012 Academic and Professional Communication (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0051 Communication Skills for Health Science 1 (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7154 - Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended and 7168 - Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended, at Western Sydney Unitversity, The College. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an ability to use appropriate reading and listening strategies to comprehend academic and professional texts common in the fields of Policing and Justice
Identify and summarise the relevant and specific features of texts
Cite evidence using conventions of academic writing
Demonstrate an ability to write academically and professionally using a variety of genres and their features
Demonstrate an ability to self-assess and reflect on own learning Subject Content 1. Understanding academic and professional communication in the fields of Policing and Justice
2. Listening in an academic context: active listening and note-taking skills
3. Academic reading skills: understanding meaning from context
4. Academic reading skills: identifying and highlighting key ideas, arguments and evidence
5. Academic writing skills: identify and apply foundational features of academic and professional language
6. Academic writing skills: summarising and paraphrasing,
7. Academic writing skills: grammar, sentence and paragraph structure
8. Academic writing skills: achieving coherence and cohesion
9. Academic integrity skills: citation and paraphrasing skills
10. Developing self-assessment and reflection skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 100 words 10 N Individual N  Short Answer 150 words 20 N Individual N  Report 450 words 30 N Individual N  Report 800 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Language and Literature (LANG)