Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7003 Applied Business Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200798 Coordinator Mahesh Enjeti Opens in new window Description This is a subject in which students will have individual responsibility for the timely completion of a significant project under the guidance of a member of the University's academic staff.  Students will be required to take a real business issue or problem and apply the relevant theories, frameworks and/or concepts learned throughout the MBA.  Projects should focus on issues that would be addressed by senior management within an organisation, and should apply a consultancy perspective. This is the capstone subject. Students should take it as their last subject of study. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 7062 AND
BUSM 7016 AND
BUSM 7026 AND
BUSM 7023 AND
MKTG 7010 AND
BUSM 7047 AND
BUSM 7061 AND
BUSM 7088 AND
BUSM 7073 Incompatible Subjects BUSM 7070 - Masters Project BUSM 7103 - Contemporary Applied Research in Employment Relations LGYA 4885 - Business Research Paper BUSM 7015 - Contemporary Management Theory and Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2755 Master of Business Administration or 2762 Executive Master of Business Administration and must have successfully completed 100 credit points of MBA subjects. Assumed Knowledge This is the Master of Business Administration capstone subject and is recommended to be undertaken in the final quarter of study. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate a business issue relevant to senior management;
Demonstrate a high level of autonomy via self-directed learning in the application of chosen theories and concepts;
Implement advanced problem solving and creative thinking skills appropriate to the chosen topic;
Evaluate, develop and revise relevant business strategy as needed;
Consider the importance and relevance of ethics, corporate sustainability and social responsibility as part of the final outcome. Subject Content - identify A Critical business issue that should be attended to by senior management
- apply key theories/frameworks/concepts relevant to their choice of Project
- use Problem-solving and Creative thinking approaches
- undertake decision making processes from An Ethical perspective
- consider corporate sustainability within The context of The Project
- develop and justify recommendations, based on The available evidence and analysis
1. Identify a critical business issue that should be attended to by senior management
2. Apply key theories/frameworks/concepts relevant to their choice of project
3. Use problem-solving and creative thinking approaches
4. Undertake decision making processes from an ethical perspective
5. Consider corporate sustainability within the context of the project
6. Develop and justify recommendations, based on the available evidence and analysis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal Maximum 1,000 words proposal and 5 minute presentation 40 N Individual Y  Report Maximum 2,500 words 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)