Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7153  Creating Inclusive Classrooms: Perspectives on Theory, Policy, and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102746 Coordinator Samantha Woo Opens in new window Description This subject examines the theoretical, legislative, ethical, international and local policy perspectives that inform inclusive practices for diverse learning needs in school settings. It critically analyses disability, special needs, inclusive principles, and evidence-based practice.  Students will develop skills in using best practice to assess, plan, monitor, and evaluate learning for students with diverse abilities. The importance of establishing collaborative partnerships with families, educational professionals, and community support services will be examined. This subject focuses on the promotion of educational and social inclusion to enhance learning outcomes, health, and wellbeing for all young people in school contexts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7052 - Inclusive Practices TEAC 7053 - Inclusive Teaching for Effective Learning TEAC 7049 - Inclusive Education –Theory Policy and Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs: 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary), 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse theoretical, ethical, philosophical, legislative, and policy frameworks underpinning inclusive practices.
Reflect on how community and personal assumptions, values, beliefs, and attitudes towards diversity, disability, and inclusive education influence interactions, pedagogies, and the provision of high-quality inclusive environments.
Critically assess the enablers and barriers to learning that facilitate access, meaningful participation, and social inclusion.
Apply knowledge of disability, special educational needs, theories of development and learning dispositions to identify individual learning needs and refer students who would benefit from educational, community and appropriate specialist support services.
Apply effective inclusive behaviour plans, personalised learning programs, and differentiated instruction, in partnership with families and other stakeholders.
Design responsive physical and social environments, incorporating technology and resources to facilitate health, wellbeing, and inclusion.
Implement family/people-centred and other evidence-based strategies to collaborate and partner with families/caregivers, other professionals, government and community support services, and other stakeholders to effectively support students with disability and special needs. 
Apply evidenced-based classroom assessment approaches to make instructional decisions for students with disability and special educational needs. Subject Content Students with disability and diverse intellectual, emotional, social and physical learning needs.  
Theoretical, ethical, philosophical, legislative, and international and local educational policy frameworks and their implications on the responsibilities of teachers for inclusive practices. 
Personal and community assumptions, values, beliefs and attitudes towards disability, diversity and inclusion and their impact on interactions, pedagogies, and the provision of high-quality inclusive practices for all learners.
Evidence-based assessment approaches to determine special educational needs for instructional decisions
Personalised education, transition plans, and specialist support programs to address identified individual learning needs in school environments. 
Learner-centred, responsive, and inclusive teaching strategies and adjustments to create inclusive learning environments for diverse learners. 
Collaboration and partnership with families/caregivers, other professionals, government and community support services, and other stakeholders using family-centred and/or people-centred approaches. 
Technological supports and resources to enhance inclusive education and learning outcomes for students with disabilities and special educational needs. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 1,500 words/15 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 2 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 600 words 10 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact William Nketsia Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact William Nketsia Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Samantha Woo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact William Nketsia Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact William Nketsia Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sarah Mcnabb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1716) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)