Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7013 Debates in Global Interactions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102341 Coordinator Gregory Barton Opens in new window Description The subject considers the history of the ways that different regions of humanity have interacted, since 1400. The subject will consider such topics as: ethnic-centrism (how to address it in historical and political knowledge?); the era of 'Pan Asia' (what does the rise of China and India mean for historical and political studies?); the prominence of 'nation' in historical knowledge (how to treat human history as 'global'?); the relationship of ethno-nationalism to globalization; the periodization of global history (turning points in the emergence of a global humanity); the determinants of difference and commonality in human history; the characteristics of 'empires'; the natural limits of humanity. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyze the debates among historians that explain globalization
Apply an understanding of the competing paradigms of Global History to historical practice.
Distinguish regions of the world in terms of their relationship with 'modernity'.
Evaluate globalization as a cultural phenomenon through the use of key theoretical texts
Construct persuasive arguments around major debates in Global history Subject Content 1. Global Debates: an overview
2. Ecumenical Integrations
3. Exchanges and Encounters
4. Enlightenment and Globalization
5. Afro-Eurasian and Atlantic Worlds
6. Globalization and The Great Divergence
7. Global Governance and Informal Empire
8. Globalizations and its Discontents
9. The Rise of Asia
10. The Natural Limits of Homo Sapiens Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 500 words 10 N Individual N  Presentation 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Essay 4,000 words approximately 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gregory Barton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)