Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1024 Managing People at Work (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700030 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description Managing People at Work provides an introductory framework for the study of employment relations.  The subject is approached from a stakeholder perspective, emphasizing the way that management, labour and the state, along with other key stakeholders, act, both separately and together, to structure the employment relationship.  In doing so, the subject integrates industrial relations and human resource management theory and practice, illustrating the links between the two disciplines.  The content of the subject is structured so as to provide an initial introduction to the disciplines of industrial relations, human resource management and employment relations and to the key stakeholders in the employment relationship.  Building on this framework, a theoretical and empirical analysis of employment relations processes is provided, with particular emphasis given to recent changes in the role and perspectives of stakeholders. School Business Discipline Human Resource Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 4397 - Management of Employment Relations LGYA 9845 - Introductory Employment Relations BUSM 1023 - Managing People at Work Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the different approaches to the study and practice of employment relations.
Recognise the relationship between industrial relations and human resource management both in the academic literature and in practice.
Identify internal and external stakeholders in the employment relationship and the goals and objectives of these stakeholders.
Analyse the way that these stakeholders act, together and separately, to shape employment relations processes.
Assess the complexity and dimensions of people management Subject Content Exploring the complexity of managing people at work.
Work, organisation and stakeholders.
Determining, attracting and selecting human resources.
Developing and rewarding human resources.
Managing human resources.
Human resources in a changing world.
Building relationships at work. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 300 words each 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Applied Project a. 2,000 words, b. 15 mins, c. 300-500 words 40 N Group/Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Business (7177) Diploma in Business Extended (7102) Diploma in Business Fast Track (7100) Diploma in Business/Bachelor of Business (6037)