Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7038 Visa Cancellation and Review Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 201029 Coordinator Marial Lewis Opens in new window Description This subject addresses the balance of visas in the Australian immigration system, including those related to bringing family to Australia, former resident and resident return visas, humanitarian program (onshore and offshore), bridging visas and other miscellaneous visas (Act-based visas and resolution of status visas). This subject also addresses the regime for review of immigration decisions, including informal review, merits review and judicial review. This subject provides an overview of ministerial intervention and cancellation powers under Australian immigration law. This subject also provides a brief overview of Australian citizenship laws. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7007 AND
LAWS 7003 Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7004 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 7034 - Visa Compliance Cancellation and Review 1 LAWS 7005 - Australia’s Visa System 3 Cancellation and Review Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2819 Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law, 2824 Master of Laws, 2826 Juris Doctor or 2810 Master of Laws (International Governance). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the requirements, visa conditions and application procedures for key visa classes, including bringing family to Australia, resident return, humanitarian program, bridging visas and other miscellaneous Australian visas.
Assess the requirements and procedures relating to visa cancellations, refusals, compliance and other sanctions with migration law in Australia.
Analyse ethical and appropriate review pathways of an immigration decision, including informal review, merits review, judicial review and ministerial intervention.
Undertake appropriate research to prepare submissions, and effectively advocate for clients.
Execute communication strategies with the principal stakeholders, including clients and government to address migration law issues.
Critically apply ethical principles, the Code of Conduct and comply with relevant legislation required of a migration agent.
Use critical reflection and analytical skills to determine creative, innovative and authentic solutions to real-life and complex migration issues and problems. Subject Content Family Visas
Former Resident and Resident Return Visas
Humanitarian Program
Bridging Visas
Other Miscellaneous Visas
Informal Review and Merits Review
Judicial Review
Ministerial Intervention
Cancellation Powers
Australian Citizenship Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 mins each 5 Y Individual Y  Case Study 1,000 words 15 N Individual N  Critical Review 3,500 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,000 words 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2,000 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Marial Lewis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Marial Lewis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Australian Migration Law Studies, minor (0346) Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law (2819) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)