Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3062 Napoleon: the Making of a Legend Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102343 Coordinator Simon Burrows Opens in new window Description This subject appraises the achievement of Napoleon Bonaparte and the manner in which he has been portrayed in his own propaganda, by his contemporaries and by historians. It also considers the historical impact of the Napoleonic and anti-Napoleonic myths in the history of France and Europe. At the heart of the module is the paradox of Napoleon's enduring popularity in France, despite his responsibility for crushing defeats in 1812-1814 and again 1815. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the main features of the career of Napoleon Bonaparte
Critically evaluate historiographical debates concerning Napoleon's historical significance, reputation and legacy
Present historical evidence and argument in a recorded oral presentation
Discuss the importance of myth in history
Demonstrate skills at interpreting historical primary source documents
Present, analyse and synthesise historical evidence and argument in written form. Subject Content 1. Napoleon Bonaparte's political career and policies in France and abroad; his attempts to control his own image; the Napoleonic legends; Bonapartism and its legacy after 1815.
2. Historical and contemporary images and interpretations of Napoleon;
3. The circumstances of Napoleon's rise;
4. Napoleon's claims to be a great general and how his victories were achieved;
5. Napoleonic diplomacy and whether he was personally responsible for the persistent warfare of the period 1799-1815;
6. The nature of Napoleonic imperialism; and whether Napoleon's rule in France might be considered enlightened or socially reactionary;
7. Napoleon's claims to liberalism and the appeal of the Napoleonic legend. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes 25 N Individual N  Peer Review 2,000 words 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Simon Burrows Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Simon Burrows Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)