Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2029 Paramedicine Care 3 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Rachael Vella Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to extend the foundational knowledge relating to the assessment and management of renal, urinary, gastrointestinal, and endocrinological presentations. The subject combines theoretical and practical aspects to develop knowledge, skills, interpretation and application of diagnostics and clinical decision-making to implement appropriate patient care. This subject will provide the opportunity to develop skills in interprofessional practice, through work-integrated learning in a variety of non-paramedic settings. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2026 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4790 Bachelor of Paramedicine or 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Unit, students will be able to: 1. Describe the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of conditions arising from the urinary, renal, endocrine and gastrointestinal systems 
2. Integrate knowledge of urinary, renal, endocrine and gastrointestinal systems into patient assessment and examination  
3. Formulate care plans using effective clinical reasoning for patients across the spectrum of acuity 
4. Analyse patient presentations to assess clinical risk and determine patient disposition 
5. Demonstrate effective teamwork in a simulated clinical context 
6. Apply principles of patient safety to clinical practice in a simulated practice setting 
7. Demonstrate person-centred care in a non-ambulance placement environment Subject Content Pathogenesis, pathophysiology and clinical presentation of urinary, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrinological conditions
Clinical assessment and diagnostics relating to urinary, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrinological conditions
Clinical procedures relating to management of urinary, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrinological conditions
Clinical reasoning to formulate care plans for urinary, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrinological conditions Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one 2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history 3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements 4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements: the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements. NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire program. Current approved first aid certificate valid for your entire program - approved program providers can be found at the Government Training website http://training.gov.au Other non-health related requirements. Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page.  https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Presentation 30 minutes 30 N Group N  Practical Exam up to 60 mins 40 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 5 days S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rachael Vella Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Other Health (HLTH)