Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2008 Connecting Schools and Communities Legacy Code 102127 Coordinator Terrence Wright Opens in new window Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the services available to schools from the community.
Explain the benefits of community involvement and service learning to schools, themselves and the community.
Liaise with their local school, community, community organizations and businesses.
Design and implement a small negotiated school-based project related to community involvement.
Create a multimodal and written project report with supporting evidence.
Identify the principles of self-evaluation and appraisal.
Critically evaluate and gauge their own progress and be capable of articulating how and in what ways they have developed.
Examine and demonstrate ethical considerations relating to teaching and the practice of research involving individuals from diverse groups.
Integrate and apply professional approaches while working in school and community settings including child protection obligations. Subject Content 1. School - Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community links & projects.
2. Communities of practice within school settings that embrace support personnel from the extended community. Community engagement and establishing partnerships.
3. Understandings of agency settings specifically aimed at improving the educational outcomes for disadvantaged learners.
4. Issues faced by learners from diverse groups including those of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander backgrounds.
5. Understandings about reflective and reflexive practice.
6. The use of evidence-based strategies for appraising achievement and documenting experiences.
7. Collating and reporting in a professional learning portfolio.
8. Knowledge integration through theory, service learning experience and relevant policy and its application in school settings.
9. Knowledge construction and skill development related to civic engagement and people from a range of backgrounds.
10. Program development, application and evaluation for improving educational outcomes for individuals from diverse groups.
11. Ethics related to service learning, teaching practice and research.
12. Professional conduct and legal obligations in child protection Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must have: Working with Children Check, Completion of Child Protection Training, Anaphylaxis certification. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report: Annotated bibliography and project plan 1,000 words 40 N Individual   Presentation: Multimodal, oral and written project reflection 10 minute presentation 30 N Individual   Report: Implementation and evaluation of negotiated community-school project Plus 500 words reflection 30 N Individual   Practical: Service Learning 5 days equivalent S/U Y Individual