Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7018 Leadership in Organisations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102392 Coordinator Michael Houlbrook Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on leadership in human service organisations and the social and economic factors that influence and frame practice.  Students in the subject will briefly review the contemporary political economic circumstances underpinning human services and the ongoing changes to policy and practice.  The subject will examine the idea of what leadership is and present major leadership theories relevant to the human services.  The content will address contexts of leadership including setting organisational culture, situational leadership in relation to practice and people, management and governance and leading through change. The subject will also examine trust, ethics and fairness in leadership and leadership in difficult circumstances.  The emphasis of the subject will be to equip students with the means to describe, question and reshape leadership practice. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1792 Master of Social Work (Qualifying) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe contemporary factors that impact leadership and management in organisations;
Analyse and appraise a diverse range of leadership theories, styles and models relevant to the Human Services;
Apply leadership skills and strategies for working in the Human Services;
Describe, critically analyse and shape their own leadership practices. Subject Content Social and economic factors that influence and frame organisational practices including neoliberalism, managerialism and human services sector reforms
Leadership as a concept and leadership theories
Contextual approaches to leadership ? culture, situation, practice, change
Leadership styles and the development of leadership practice
Giving and getting supervision and support Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1000 words 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 500 words 10 N Group Y  Report 1500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michael Houlbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Social Work (Qualifying) (1792)