Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 1020 Professional Practice Experience 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401000 Coordinator Aimee Lamb Opens in new window Description Professional Practice Experience 1 focuses on the development of the role and clinical skills of the registered nurse when promoting, maintaining, and supporting a person's health and wellbeing across the lifespan. Students will be able to develop the foundational clinical skills in a simulated clinical environment to enable the further development of more complex skills in a health care setting. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 1022 AND NURS 1023 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online. or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify the principles of safe medication administration in nursing practice.
2. Document assessments and nursing care plans in accordance with relevant policies, guidelines, standards, regulations, and legislation requirements.
3. Perform assessments that are holistic as well as culturally appropriate, and are respectful of a person’s dignity, culture, values, beliefs, and rights, within a simulated learning environment.
4. Recognise the role and skills of nursing in promoting, maintaining, and supporting a person’s health across the lifespan.
5. Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in nursing. Subject Content 1. Principles of nursing frameworks
2. Holistic Assessment and wellness across the lifespan
3. Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
4. National Health Priority Areas: Injury prevention and control
5. Application of legal-ethical principles
6. WH&S standard precautions
7. Protective isolation
8. Manual handling and transfers
9. Working in multi-disciplinary teams
10. NMBA decision-making framework (DMF) – nursing  
11. Principles of accessing best available evidence, for safe, quality practice Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Aimee Lamb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Aimee Lamb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Aimee Lamb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Aimee Lamb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Aimee Lamb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Aimee Lamb Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Hybrid Subject Contact Melanie Bingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)