Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 0019 Studies of Society (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900091 Coordinator Mona Shrestha Opens in new window Description This subject aims to help students develop an understanding and appreciation of Australian society. The subject will provide general information and familiarise students with key structures, events, concepts and terminology used in relation to Australian's modern society.  At the end of this subject, students should have greater knowledge and understanding on Australia's history, governmental and political systems. They will learn about consumer laws, civilian rights and responsibilities as well as the composition of Australia's population and relevant variations and trends. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Foundation program at The College. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and explain some key concepts related to the subject
Identify key elements of Australian society, e.g. population composition and historical events
Demonstrate an understanding of Australian institutions and systems, e.g. business, governmental, judicial and political systems
Interpret information in the form of text, graphs, statistics and illustrations
Write notes, summaries and extended responses based on unit content, readings and class discussions
Distinguish and respond to key words and terms in relation to Australian society Subject Content 1. Australia - History
Settlement by Indigenous peoples and their location across Australia. 1788 the arrival of Europeans.
The role of convicts and migrants in establishing and developing Australia.
2. Australia's Population
Common statistics on size, age, distribution and cultural composition of Australia's population.
Reasons for variations, settlement patterns, range of belief systems and future population trends.
3. Australia's Government System
The three tiered system of government. The role and responsibilities associated with Local , State
and Federal levels of government.
4. Australia's Political Framework
Role of political parties in a democratic society. Types of political parties.
Electoral and voting processes in Australia.
5. Australian Legal System
The role of the judicial system (independent of government and military sections)
Common civilian rights and responsibilities as well as consumer laws.
6. Business In Australia - Consumers - Satisfying Wants
Needs, wants, goods, and services.
Factors determining which wants are satisfied.
7. Business In Australia - Consumers - Money
Barter, money, exchange, credit, interest and interest rates, purchasing goods and services - retail, direct sales, direct marketing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    In-class Test  70 minutes 15 N Individual   Stimulus Response Task 900 words 15 N Individual   In-class Extended (with 350 word Essay Plan submitted prior) Response 60 minutes 20 N Individual   End of Session Exam (Take Home)  2 hours 10 minutes 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)