Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7022 Social Work (Qualifying) Field Education 2 Credit Points 30 Legacy Code 102397 Coordinator Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window Description Social Work (Qualifying) Field Education 2 incorporates the final social work placement (600 hours) and will consolidate the experiences gained from both field placements. It will further assist students to clearly articulate their frame of reference within a critically reflective practice framework, before entering employment. Placements are offered in a variety of agency types spanning all areas of social work practice: direct service work with individuals, groups and families, community development; research and policy. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 30cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 7023 AND
WELF 7021 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1792 Master of Social Work (Qualifying) and Students must complete 100 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Utilise advanced skills in a specialised area of social work;
Demonstrate advanced social work skills and knowledge in diverse fields of practice including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island, cross-cultural, mental health and child wellbeing;
Be autonomous and independent in practice;
Articulate the values, interests and ideologies that underpin practice in the agency, and evaluate their implications for social work practice;
Constructively contribute to the work of the organisation and contribute ideas for change or improvement;
Critically reflect on their own practice, and evaluate their readiness for entering the social work workforce. Subject Content 1. 600 hours of supervised practice
2. Writing a job application and resume for a social work position
3. Examining practice competence –the ‘theory and practice divide’
4. Exploring skills in dealing with difficult situations
5. Effective use of supervision
6. Understanding social work ‘competence’ in diverse fields of practice including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island, cross-cultural, mental health and child wellbeing
7. Evaluating evidence-based practice
8. Social justice as a framework for practice; social work as political practice
9. Dual relationships in ‘embedded’ social work practice
10. Working in uncertainty – the first year of practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration.  Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. 1. Student Undertaking form.
2.  National Criminal History Check: Students must have a current (expiring 3 years from date of issue) check valid for their entire program. A valid National Criminal history check must be an Australia wide check, include the student's full name matching their Student ID card and date of birth and not have any offences listed.  If a student has a criminal history identified on their check, they must provide a Clinical Placement Authority Card (CPAC) or conditional letter from the NSW HealthShare Employment Screening and Review Unit
https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/careers/student_clearance/Documents/appendix-10-student-application.pdf
International students must additionally have a translated International Police Check or statutory declaration.
3.  A NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) clearance letter issued under the category of volunteer valid for their entire program.
Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 600 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Social Work (Qualifying) (1792)