Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3011 Property Investment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200749 Coordinator Kamel Taoum Opens in new window Description Property Investment addresses critical issues in property investment analysis. The characteristics and fundamentals of property investment will be addressed. Students will learn and apply the concepts of property economics, market analysis, valuation, financial analysis and risk analysis in making property investment decision. The subject pays special attention to the discounted cash flow method as the basis of analysis for investment properties. Finally, students will be introduced to property finance, taxation and international property investment issues. School Business Discipline Investment and Securities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 4694 - Property Investment Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge Students undertaking this subject require the background knowledge achieved through prior study in the general principles of valuation. Learning Outcomes Evaluate and apply economic and market data to analyse the property market.
Apply calculations of risk and returns for investment properties.
Utilise the discounted cash flow method in analysing investment properties.
Conduct an investment analysis for income producing properties.
Explain property investment decision process in a dynamic market environment.
Perform risk analysis for investment properties.
Explain the impacts of financing and taxation on property returns and the issues of investment in international property.
Apply verbal communication skills appropriate to property context. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 3,000 words 20 N Group Y  Report Part 1  (report) 1,500 words (20%); Part 2 (presentation) 3 minutes (10%) 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kamel Taoum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Kamel Taoum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Property, Minor (0289) Property, Testamur Major (T047) Quantity Surveying, Testamur Major (T087)