Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3012 Applied Indigenous Research Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102310 Coordinator Kaiya Aboagye Opens in new window Description In this subject students will undertake a guided personal inquiry project. Students will investigate and reflect on the practical, cultural and ethical complexities of being an Indigenous researcher. Students will examine ethics guidelines for research with Indigenous peoples and the realities of applying them in practice. They will study examples of Indigenous research scholarship to develop and present their own Statement of Research Philosophy. School Social Sciences Discipline Indigenous Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 2050 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1682 - Rethinking Research with Indigenous Australians Independent Study project (Block Mode) HUMN 3070 - Rethinking Research with Indigenous Australians Independent Study project (Day Mode) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Community and Social Development (BCSD) program. Students must have successfully completed 60 credit points of study. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the experiences of research of an Indigenous scholar;
Undertake a guided personal inquiry research project;
Create an individual statement of research philosophy;
Demonstrate presentation skills to describe and reflect on statement of research philosophy. Subject Content Self-reflective research methods for example personal inquiry, autoethnography
Ethics protocols and guidelines relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
Learning from experiences of Indigenous researchers
Complexities (practical, cultural and ethical) of being an Indigenous researcher
Indigenous methodologies and methods
Researcher approach and philosophy towards research Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 30 N Individual   Professional Task 1,000 words 40 N Individual   Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)