Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3017 Traumatic and Environmental Emergencies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401071 Coordinator Robin Pap Opens in new window Description This subject deals with pathophysiology and pathogenesis of traumatic injuries and environmental emergencies as well as safe and effective out-of-hospital management of these patients. Best patient outcomes are achieved when out-of-hospital care forms part of a trauma system. Paramedics are required to make decisions to achieve the provision of the right care and transfer to the right hospital in the right time. This applies to both, the single-patient incident and the mass casualty situation. This subject aims to develop the knowledge and skills to safely and effectively manage the patient(s) suffering traumatic injury or an environmental emergency. Furthermore, the subject aims to prepare the paramedic student to be part of a major incident response. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 3014 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Assumed Knowledge First and second year of the BHSc (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes Examine the incidence and mechanism of injury of a range of major traumatic injuries.
Integrate patient presentation to underlying pathophysiology of traumatic injuries and environmental conditions.
Describe, defend, demonstrate and analyse evidence-based out-of-hospital management of major trauma and environmental emergencies including effective integration into a trauma system.
Apply clinical reasoning and problem-solving in complex single- and multiple-patient situations.
Explain and apply principles of major incident management.
Evaluate the roles and responsibilities of ambulance services and individual paramedics during major incident management including CBRN (chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear) events. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review NA 30 N Group Y  Quiz 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Practical Exam Up to 1 hour 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Robin Pap Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)