Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 4004 Psychology Research Thesis Credit Points 30 Legacy Code 102528 Coordinator Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window Description In this subject students investigate a substantive individual research question relevant to the discipline of psychology. Under guidance from supervisors, students engage with all components of psychological research, including conducting a comprehensive literature review, forming an individual research question, developing research methodology to test the question, obtaining ethics approval, and collecting and analysing data.  Students produce a written literature review and substantive thesis in the form of a submission-ready journal article. Note that this is a 30 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (15 credit points in each term). School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 15cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Co-requisite(s) BEHV 4006 Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5257 - Psychology (Honours) FT YL LGYB 5258 - Psychology (Honours) PT YL BEHV 4003 - Empirical Research Project Restrictions This subject is restricted to students enrolled in programs: 1796 Graduate Diploma in Psychology, 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours), 1860 Bachelor of Psychological Studies (Honours), 1905 Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours), 1504 Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Psychology, 1500 Bachelor of Psychology (continuing) who have successfully completed 240 credit points including the 160 credit point core sequence in Psychology, 1834 Bachelor of Psychology/1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) students who have successfully completed 240 credit points including the 120 credit point core sequence in Psychology and the 40 credit point Psychology Extension minor prior to 2022 or for students who commenced 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) from 2022, students must have successfully completed 240 credit points including the 140 credit point core sequence in Psychology. Assumed Knowledge Students must have completed an accredited three-year sequence in psychology, or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply advanced bibliographic and information literacy skills to locate and select literature appropriate to a chosen and research topic.
Apply conceptual skills to formulate and justify a research proposal.
Demonstrate comprehensive knowledge and application skills associated with a chosen, relevant research method.
Adhere to the ethical processes and guidelines of the research institution the conduct and reporting of research.
Accurately apply appropriate methods of data analysis to research data.
Demonstrate rigor in drawing and defending conclusions from research findings in a coherently written research thesis. Subject Content Completion of a research Thesis relevant to the field of psychology based on a rigorous design and scrutinized proposal.
Under supervision, an individual student will perform a literature search of their research topic, develop a research design, develop research procedures, make observations, collect and analyse the data and write a thesis on the study. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 3,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Thesis 6,000-7,000 words 100 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours) (1905) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma in Psychology (1796)