Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 2009 Ecosystem Restoration Credit Points 10 Coordinator Paul Rymer Opens in new window Description Ecosystem Restoration will cover the most widely used and successful management strategies employed to conserve and restore native species and communities facing land degradation and major threats. This subject will cover policy requirements and active management strategies involved in rewilding, ecological restoration, reintroductions, translocations, and their implementation at local, national and global levels. You will explore the full range of concepts and tools for conservation management. This subject will focus on restoration and conservation from individuals to landscapes.  Indigenous and industry groups will guide workshop discussions. Its focus is ecological, although consideration is also given to socio-economic factors that influence restoration programs. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions None Learning Outcomes Explain the principles and objectives of conservation and restoration measures.
Appraise the various restoration approaches and techniques and the conditions to which each is most suited 
Assess optimal conservation actions and ‘on-ground’ techniques based on condition assessments
Effectively communicate ecosystem restoration project outcomes to diverse audiences. Subject Content Principles and objectives of ecological restoration  
Biodiversity assessment methods in the context of biodiversity, indigenous elements and conservation policy 
Components required (including Indigenous perspectives) to design optimal conservation strategies and monitor success
Species-centric and ecosystem-centric approaches to conservation
Toolbox for ecological restoration covering a range of approaches Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 60 minutes each 30 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 30 N Group N  Applied Project 1000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Paul Rymer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Conservation Science, Minor (0317) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Sustainability, Tourism and Environment, Major (0305) Urban Evolution, Minor (0313)