Academic Handbook Current Edition MANU 3003 Creative Digital: Robots and Avatars Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301307 Coordinator Mauricio Novoa Opens in new window Description This is a project-based learning subject that assists students to creatively synthesise skills learned in previous subjects. Students are introduced to current problem solving in professional practice that negotiates between physical and digital components to form smart artefacts. That relation is represented with the development of an interactive robot and its digital mirror counterpart as its avatar. The subject also assists in the preparation of a professional portfolio show piece for job applications in the industry. Learning by experimentation, the subject links traditional skillsets including software and 3D printing with new forms of design, from engineering narratives to digital creativity within augmented and virtual environments. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Manufacturing Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects MANU 3001 - Graphics 5 Creative Computing Assumed Knowledge Understanding of 3D CAD and basic programming is desirable. Learning Outcomes Create a project brief that challenges the normal or typical uses of an object.
Design and implement techniques for linking components in the virtual (avatar) and real worlds (robot).
Develop design solutions using an empathic human-centred approach.
Identify and use appropriate range of modalities of communication between user, real world and virtual world for the project. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project: Making the Robot Stage 3D Physical Design and Development 300 words 
3D Physicial Model and Professional Presentation Pitch (5 slides) 15 N Individual   Applied Project: Making the Avatar Stage 3D Virtual Design and Development   500 words
3D Digital/VR Model and Professional Presentation Pitch (10 slides) 25 N Individual   Applied Project: The Smart System (bringing it all together): 3D Physical and Virtual Synchronization through programming 850 words 
Final Product/System Presentation and Professional Presentation Pitch (20 slides) 40 N Individual   Process: E-Portfolio and Visual Diary 30 pages  20 N Individual Structures that include subject Manufacturing Eng. (MANU) Visualisation and Graphics, Major (0080)