Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 1019 Scientific Literacy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300811 Coordinator Luke Barnes Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide students with scientific literacy, personal and employability skills and attitudes required to successfully undertake science-related undergraduate studies and to prepare for professional life. Students learn, develop and utilise academic and interpersonal methodologies and approaches within the context of applied scientific principles and take responsibility for their own learning and develop a work ethic. Students are introduced to the contestable and uncertain nature of science and the scientific method that underpins academic integrity and ethical behaviour. Activities encourage development of oral and written communication skills, self-confidence, self-efficacy, creative and critical thinking through problem solving, group process, and peer support and assessment. Academic and employability skills include scientific reading and writing, time management, researching scientific information and library skills, oral presentation, taking tests and exams, effective personal and group based learning strategies, and approaches to online learning. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 1018 - Professional Skills for Science NATS 1020 - Scientific Literacy (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge Basic literacy and numeracy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Communicate effectively through a written report that meets the professional standards of scientific discipline
Present a structured argument confidently in front of peers, as audience, and assessors
Apply the processes of thinking and writing reflectively to develop the ability of reflecting on their learning
Develop an understanding of the skills and attitudes required for group work interactions
Apply critical thinking to make informed decisions Subject Content 1. How to Succeed at University 
2. Academic Research: Finding, Assessing, and Referencing Information 
3. Writing for Scientists 
4. Public Speaking for Scientists 
5. Science is Empirical 
6. Science is Non-Linear 
7. Science is Inductive 
8. Science is Falsifiable 
9. Academic Integrity and Ethics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 minutes per lecture 10 N Individual N  Log/Workbook Part of each tutorial 10 N Group N  Presentation Six minutes 25 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 25 N Individual N  Multiple Choice 60 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Surabaya Semester 1 (2024) Surabaya On-site Subject Contact Luke Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Data Science (3769) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Business, Major (0104) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Natural Science, Major (0213) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)