Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7012 Strategic Communication Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102292 Coordinator Tanya Notley Opens in new window Description Local and international industry trends show that strategic communication, particularly including agendas of innovation and ethics, are a growing force in the convergent media landscape. This subject introduces students to both the science and art of strategic communication. It is grounded in an advanced understanding of the complexity of human communication processes and driven by a conviction that systematic research and analysis is required to inform strategic communication responses. This subject is based around a series of assessments that require students to address a real-world business challenge or a social issue in ways that take advantage of convergent media environments. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 1704 - Strategic Communication Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the importance, historical foundations and current application of strategy in successful communication interventions, and be able to identify a diverse range of approaches and methodologies that can be applied to real world needs or problems.
Analyse and critique communication strategies embedded within government, corporate, and third sector interventions.
Establish criteria for evaluation of strategic convergent media interventions.
Undertake relevant research to develop and leverage strategies for 'real world' convergent media interventions; show experience in the use of research to apply theory and modelling to develop effective strategic communication responses.
Think critically and creatively to articulate a strategic vision that is based on evidence and driven by theory.
Consolidate research findings into a strategic brief/pitch presentation and a final strategic response document. Subject Content This subject is delivered in 3 modules:
Module 1: Introduction to strategic thinking and design. This module focuses on the origins and principles of strategic thinking and practice. Through historical case studies (largely from political and commercial domains), students will consider the way that underlying principle informs the formation and development of enlightened strategy. (3 weeks)
Module 2: The science of strategic communication. This module focuses on the gathering and interpretation of empirical and non-empirical data, with an emphasis on data as a key driver of insightful strategy formation. By working with real-life problems students will learn to source and analyse relevant data so as to see and understand a specific environment in ways that inform a strategic response. (4 weeks)
Module 3: The art of strategic communication. By working with the analysis undertaken in Module 2, students will learn to test, critique, and apply relevant models and theories to their analysis in order to design a strategic response to a real-life problem. This application will be used to design a strategic narrative intervention informed by research and driven by theory. (5 weeks). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Strategic Communication Review. Students analyse and present two strategic communication initiatives 5 minute in class presentation 10 N Individual   Project Proposal. Students identify a problem or need and propose a research plan and potential models and theories they will investigate to develop a strategic response 5-10 minute in-class presentation and 1,000 word proposal 15 N Individual   Progress Reports. Students will receive one-on-one mentorship throughout this unit. Students' preparedness for meetings will be assessed 2 x meetings assessed on preparedness and responses 15 N Individual   Student Response. Students will design a strategic response that is based on their research and analysis  5-10 minute in-class presentation and a 4,000 word proposal OR production of design/media prototype with a 1,000 word report 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Digital Knowledge and Innovation, Major (0223)