Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4029 Industrial Design Project (Completion) Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 300774 Coordinator Richard Yang Opens in new window Description The Industrial Design Honours Program provides students with an opportunity to apply their industrial design skills to an in-depth year long design research project. In Industrial Design Major Project (Completion), Honours candidates respond to the research findings and design brief that they produced in Autumn semester. They undertake detailed design development to resolve and communicate a final design solution, which is publicly exhibited at the end of the year. Their design and research communications present a strong argument for the final design and demonstrate the honours candidates capacity to undertake postgraduate design research and to join professional design practice. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 4028 Equivalent Subjects LGYB 1049 - Industrial Design Project (Completion) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Industrial Design or Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours). Ethics clearance must be obtained if required. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge related to the successful completion of year 3 Industrial Design is assumed and successful completion of Industrial Design Project Commencement and Industrial Design Project Commencement’s co-requisite subjects. Learning Outcomes Plan, manage and report on an in-depth design investigation
Produce a scholarly exegesis which demonstrates a critical, comprehensive understanding of industrial design methods.
Craft an exhibition standard presentation model.
Produce detailed industry-standard technical specifications for the manufacture and assembly or production of their design solution.
Generate engaging, professional graphic communications that explain their design solutions to a wide audience.
Present and defend a logical argument for the novelty, sensitivity/appropriateness and feasibility of a design solution supported by scholarly and practical research and conceptual exploration and development to a wide audience
Communicate how design decisions were arrived at with a detailed visual process diary and concept development models.
Prove the structural and/or mechanical integrity and manufacturability of any physical design solutions. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    High Resolution Working Model Working Model 35 N Individual   Visual Process Diary Completion A4 Visual Process Diary 3 N Individual   3D Modeling & Engineering Drawings Drawings 20 N Individual   Exegesis 6000-8000 words (5000 words submitted in 300773) 40 N Individual   Checkpoint Presentations 1) Concept Development (10 minute presentation) 2) Concept Development (10 minute presentation) 2 N Individual Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)