Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 3005 Mechanical Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300764 Coordinator Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the design of machine components providing a link between engineering science and practice. Students will examine the design of machine components to ensure their functionality, strength and durability in order to identify and provide innovative solutions to complex real-world problems. Knowledge gained in this subject will benefit students aspiring to careers in mechanical and mechatronic engineering. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MECH 2003 AND
MECH 2001 Equivalent Subjects MECH 3003 - Design of Servo-Systems Assumed Knowledge Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of science and engineering fundamentals in mechanical design.
Apply engineering design methodologies that can assist the design of machine components. 
Manage complex mechanical engineering design projects in a team working environment.
Determine the integrity of structures and machines, to design the safe for machine components.
Design a creative and innovative solution to the complex real-world STEM projects.
Communicate concepts and designs in a range of formats to a diverse audience, and in an ethical manner.
Collaborate with team members from diverse backgrounds in a responsible way. Subject Content The design process – specifying problems and generating solutions 
Making decisions – decision-making strategies, cost benefit analysis, economic and human factors 
Engineering materials in design
CAD Modelling 
Design for machine components 
Structural integrity in engineering design Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 6 pages  (each) 30 N Individual N  Practical 5 pages  (each) 30 N Individual N  Report 6000 words 30 Y Group Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)