Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1053 Diversity, Language and Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102736 Coordinator Ee Ling Quah Opens in new window Description The purpose of this subject is to equip students with critical analytical skills to understand and navigate a multicultural and multilingual society, including that of Greater Western Sydney. Students will gain an historicised and sociological understanding of culture as social and power constructs, the impact of colonisation, erasure and revitalisation of Indigenous Australian cultures and languages, and of approaches to diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. They will explore the value of their existing and emerging knowledges in anti-coloniality, social justice and activism to navigate a rapidly changing and unequal global environment. Students will practise their intercultural communication skills in a team setting through interactive learning activities and group work. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1009 - Contemporary Society HUMN 1011 - Contemporary Society (WSTC) HUMN 1056 - Diversity Language and Culture (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key concepts in the critical analysis of diversity, language and culture.
Investigate the impact of colonisation across different aspects of the society.
Apply anti-colonial approaches to address dominator culture, language and logic.
Participate in revitalisation of Dharug language and culture.
Analyse issues relating to globalisation and unequal power structures.
Locate and assess sources and expound arguments in written and verbal forms.
Apply interpersonal and intercultural communication skills in a team setting. Subject Content Introduction to Diversity, Language and Culture
Colonisation and Anti-coloniality
Indigenous Australian cultures and languages: Erasure and revitalisation
Indigenous Australian cultures and languages: Learning Dharug language
Migration and multiculturalism 
Globalisation and cultural hybridity
Race, racism and anti-racism
Health and Intersectionality
Body diversity and neurodiversity
Genders and sexualities
Activism and social change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation During the 2-hour tutorial throughout the semester 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,200 words equivalent 40 N Individual N  Essay 1, 200 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation Throughout the semester 10 N Group/Individual N Summer The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation During the 2-hour tutorial throughout the semester 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,200 words equivalent 40 N Individual N  Essay 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation Throughout the semester 10 N Group/Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ee Ling Quah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ee Ling Quah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ee Ling Quah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (1706) Bachelor of Arts (Dean's Scholars) (1655) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) (1651) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean's Scholars (1822) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1652) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) Dean's Scholars (1823) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Business (1818) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (2537) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2830) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Social Science (1808) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of International Studies (1658) Bachelor of International Studies (Dean's Scholars) (1739) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business (1820) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Social Science (1807) Bachelor of Languages and Linguistics (1810) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Psychology, Major (0001) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)