Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 3007 Economics and Finance Engagement Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200537 Coordinator Kathy Tannous Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with exposure to problems with which economists and finance professionals are confronted in their daily work. They will learn about and examine the multi-dimensional nature of the issues addressed by economists and finance professionals in real-life. Students will need to consider the nature of the problems, propose solutions, as well as address how realistic the solutions they are proposing are. They will learn how to systematically reflect on their contribution to the industry or community setting with which they engage. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students in the following programs must have successfully completed 150 credit points: 2504 Bachelor of Economics, 2526 Bachelor of Economics/LLB, 2739 / 2753 Bachelor of Business and Commerce, 2741 / 2754 Bachelor of Business and Commerce (Advanced Business Leadership), 3655 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/ Bachelor of Business and Commerce, 3659 Bachelor of Science/ Bachelor of Business and Commerce, 2740 Bachelor of Business and Commerce / Bachelor of Laws. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Show an in-depth understanding of a real-life problem in their field of study;
Choose and apply knowledge they have gained in different units to examine a particular problem;
Select and evaluate practical solutions in light of industry or community needs. Subject Content After an introduction to engaged research, students will choose a particular problem in an industry or community setting and develop solutions that are beneficial to the industry partner as well as based on state-of-the-art knowledge in the discipline. Students will work alone or in groups depending on the problem to be solved, and will provide a concise and comprehensive report for the industry partner. Throughout the project, students will keep a reflective learning journal. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,500 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 5,000 words 50 N Group Y  Reflection 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Kathy Tannous Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Bachelor of Business (2786) Diploma in Business/Bachelor of Business (6037) Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Economics, Testamur Major (T039)