Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2010 Health Variations 1 - Perioperative Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401207 Coordinator Bronwyn Smith Opens in new window Description In Autumn 2022 this subject will be replaced by subject 401455 - Health Variations 1 - Introduction to Alterations in Health. This subject provides the theoretical background knowledge for Professional Practice 3. It introduces the student to the fundamental principles of perioperative nursing care in supporting clients undergoing surgical interventions incorporating the related pathophysiology and pharmacology. In particular, nursing care of surgical interventions relating to the gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal and reproductive systems, and injury prevention and controls will be the focus of case history reviews. The National Health Priority Areas of Injury Prevention and Control, Arthritis and Musculoskeletal conditions and Cancer Control will be addressed. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) Co-requisites for 4691 and 4693 BIOS 1010 Bioscience 1 and BIOS 1011 Bioscience 2 Equivalent Subjects NURS 2009 Health Variations 1 Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, immunity, wound healing, infection control, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the relationship to nursing practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    2 x Online Quiz 20% total (10% each each quiz) 20 minutes each quiz 20 N Individual   Professional Task: A Case History with Guided Questions 1,200 words 40 N Individual   End-of-session Exam - Online 1 hour 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)