Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7016 Integrated Practices 4: Self and Relationships Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102627 Coordinator Paul Jacobson Opens in new window Description In this capstone unit, students integrate their learning about interpersonal awareness and the value of the therapeutic relationship, which are central to the Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling. A focus on multiple relational influences enhances students' ability to work therapeutically with individuals, couples and families. Clients bring themselves and their current and past relationships into the therapy room with them, as does their counsellor. Students will have the opportunity to investigate their personal values and beliefs about relationships and how these influence their work with clients. Family life-cycle and developmental models are discussed, critiqued and applied to promote understanding of common and diverse client issues and presenting concerns. Ultimately students will explore the concept of interdependence and how relationship is central to human wellbeing. School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7018 Co-requisite(s) WELF 7012 Incompatible Subjects HUMN 7010 - Critical and Creative Enquiry WELF 7015 - Integrated Practices 4 Self and Relationships Restrictions Students must be enrolled in1817 Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling, and must have successfully completed 120 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Concurrent or previous study in counselling and/or psychotherapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise how diverse and multiple relational influences and family systems present in working with counselling and psychotherapy clients.
Critique and integrate knowledge from models such as the family life cycle and Erikson's developmental model in order to undertake assessment of client issues.
Analyse and apply family systems with regard to the patterns and diversity of self and relationship within wider cultural and social systems.
Effectively practice working hypotheses and the use of counselling skills in working with couples and families.
Identify own personal values and biases about the nature of 'healthy' relationships and the influence these have on work as a counsellor or psychotherapist. Subject Content Examination of relationship dynamics at the individual, couple and family level.
Identification of the diverse nature of relationships, kinship and the modern family.
Consideration of factors such as the family life cycle, and Erikson's psychosocial stages in understanding the dynamics of interpersonal and intrapersonal presenting issues.
Presentation of family systems theories and approaches to working with couples to help inform working with relationships.
Examination of personal values and biases as related to relationships and how these may influence therapeutic practice.
Participation in experiential workshops to develop counselling skills applicable to working with more than one person at a time in counselling and psychotherapy. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Practical 30 minute recording (1,500 word equivalent) and 1,500 word written analysis of therapist's skills 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Paul Jacobson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling (1817)