Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3017 Web Systems Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300583 Coordinator Weisheng Si Opens in new window Description In this subject students further develop their theoretical and practical skills in designing and developing web based information systems using systems analysis, programming, database, human computer interaction and web technologies skills that they have learnt in previous subjects. Current web development technologies and/or frameworks will be utilised to build a complex web information system in a collaborative web development team. Techniques of porting web systems to mobile platforms will also be explored. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 2020 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5737 Advanced Web Site Development Assumed Knowledge - Fundamental web development skills such as HTML, CSS, Javascript and PHP.
- Principles of relational database design and development, practical skills in SQL.
- Principles of systems analysis and design including the specification of end-user requirements and a good knowledge of the SDLC and its application to solving computer system related problems. Learning Outcomes Design and create dynamic data driven web based information systems incorporating appropriate client and server data validation.
Explain and implement techniques of maintaining state in a stateless http environment.
Describe and apply essential page design principles to create and manage the overall layout and appearance of web systems using techniques such as templates, master pages, and style sheets.
Explain and implement advanced techniques of user interaction with client devices (eg, AJAX).
Design and implement an authentication and access control system for web based information systems.
Demonstrate necessary technical and theoretical skills and knowledge to work as a member of a project team to successfully develop complex web based information systems.
Describe appropriate methods of improving web system performance.
Port web based systems to mobile devices.
Apply CSS framework to lay out and style website
Apply LINQ to construct database queries
Apply Entity Framework Core to bind objects with database records
Implement both client-side and server-side data validation
Implement dynamic webpages with Razor syntax
Apply MVC framework to develop web systems
Implement user authentication and authorization for web systems
Apply collaborative skills to work in a team in developing complex web systems Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 50 and 60 hours to complete over a period of 12 weeks 50 N Individual N  Practical 30 to 40 hours to complete over a period of 13 weeks 25 N Group Y  Final Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Information Systems (INFS) Systems Programming, Major (0064) User Experience, Major (0273) Web Application Development (for Computing Students), Minor (0151)