Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 2020 Criminal Law for Policing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102690 Coordinator Adrian Leiva Opens in new window Description Knowledge of the criminal law is useful to state and federal police forces, government and private organisations, military police, private investigators, anti-corruption agencies, and in industries such as banking and insurance. All have a vested interest in preventing, detecting and investigating breaches of the criminal law through a policy framework. This subject introduces students to the common criminal offences encountered by police officers, with a focus on those investigating breaches of the criminal law rather than those prosecuting or defending. Common elements of Australian (particularly NSW legislation) and international jurisdictions and Commonwealth legislation are covered. School Social Sciences Discipline Police Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects CULT 2006 - Evidence Investigations and Police Intelligence Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the basic elements of a range of commonly used criminal offences.
Apply the basic elements of commonly used criminal offences to scenarios to determine the offence.
Distinguish the different sources and jurisdictions of criminal offences.
Explain the legal reasoning of the courts in interpreting the criminal statutes. Subject Content Common offences of the Crimes Act 40/1900 (NSW)
Common offences of the Drug Misuse & Trafficking Act 25/1985 (NSW)
Selected offences of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Commonwealth)
General and partial defences to criminal offences
Statutory law and common law offences Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 mins and 300 words
 15 N Individual Y  Case Study 700 words 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 75 questions 25 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Adrian Leiva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Adrian Leiva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Policing (exit only) (1930) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law Enforcement Studies, Minor (0308)