Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3073 Tourism Policy and Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101904 Coordinator Garth Lean Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject is replaced by TOUR 3005 - Tourism Policy and Planning. This subject gives students a general understanding of planning theory as it relates to sustainable tourism policy and practice. Students will apply this knowledge to tourism sites, facilities and activities in Sydney with a major assignment focusing on Sydney Olympic Park. A self-guided field trip enables students to apply and understand various planning techniques, tourism policies, scenario mapping strategies and consider conflict resolution practices. Students will present their ideas by integrating quantitative and qualitative data, both in teams and individually. At the conclusion of this subject students will have the skills to apply planning theory to an analysis of tourism policies, sites, facilities and activities in a global city such as Sydney. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR3005 - Tourism Policy and Planning LGYA 1265 - Tourism Policy and Planning BUSM 2035 - Recreational Tourism Policy and Planning Incompatible Subjects LGYB 8930 - Tourism Policy and Planning LGYA 6103 - Recreational Planning towards Sustainable Tourism LGYB 8197 - Sustainable Tourism and Recreational Planning Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of planning theory as it relates to sustainable tourism;
Analyse various planning techniques, tourism policies, scenario mapping strategies and conflict resolution practices;
Work individually and in teams to present their ideas orally and in written forms;
Integrate quantitative and qualitative tourism data to formulate policies and procedures; and
Apply planning theory to an analysis of tourism policies, sites, facilities and activities. Subject Content Understanding tourism policy and planning
Applying sustainable tourism concepts and indicators to case studies
Assessing tourism experiences and opportunities using qualitative and quantitative data
Examining stakeholder conflicts and impact assessments
Planning for destination management
Conducting scenario planning
Conducting site visits and field work
Preparing professional presentations
Evaluating planning frameworks Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1200 words 30 Y Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 25 Y Group Y  Report 1800 words 45 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Tourism (TOUR) Tourism, Major (0161)