Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3016 Indigenous Cultures: A Global Perspective Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101905 Coordinator Donna James Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject is replaced by HUMN 3118 - Indigenous Cultures: A Global Perspective. Drawing on global case studies, this subject aims to introduce students to some of the pressing socio-cultural issues facing indigenous peoples around the world.  The subject examines the complex relationships between globalisation, colonialism and post-colonialism and contemporary indigenous cultures and identities.  It draws attention to the way in which issues of representation, cultural autonomy, cultural commodification, development and human rights play out with respect to indigenous peoples' lives.  More specifically, the subject interrogates the power relations and politics central to many of these issues and examines the nature of contemporary indigenous and non-indigenous interactions, particularly in the contexts of tourism and heritage, the cultural industries, the environment, development and urbanisation. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5759 - Indigenous Tourism LGYA 0631 - Indigenous Cultures and Tourism A Global Perspective Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain how globalisation has complexified indigenous cultural identities.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of the historical and contemporary relationships between indigenous and non-indigenous peoples and cultures by discussing the theories and concepts of colonialism, postcolonialism, autonomy, participatory methods and self-determination.
Critically reflect on the issues of cultural representation and cultural consumption.
Analyse how politics, power, ethics, ontology and epistemology influence the treatment of indigenous peoples in one of the following contexts: tourism and heritage, the cultural industries, land management and the natural environment, and development.
Use online technologies to organise, share and communicate Indigenous-related topics and issues. Subject Content Understanding indigeneity in the changing world
Theories of colonialism and postcolonialism
Autonomy, self-determination and indigenous politics
Globalisation and indigenous identities and cultures
The representation and consumption of indigenous cultures
Mapping indigenous cultural landscape/s
Power, land rights, displacement and indigenous protected areas
Ethics, tourism, and cultural and environmental heritage
Sustainability, development and ethics in practice
Ethnography, travel and the Other Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Poster Collection of images, commentary etc 20 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Anthropology, Major (0002) Anthropology, Minor (0002) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Heritage and Tourism, Minor (0012) Indigenous Studies, Minor (0263) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Peace and Development Studies, Major (0027) Peace and Development Studies, Minor (0027) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainable Development, Major (0163) Tourism, Major (0161)