Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4002 Midwifery Honours Thesis (Part-Time) Credit Points 60 Legacy Code 401443 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description This is a 60 credit point subject taken over three terms (20 credit points in each term). 

Research is a necessary undertaking toward the continued development of midwifery science and practice. The aim of this unit is to both broaden and deepen Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) students' understanding of research methods and the application of knowledge and skills to conceptualise, design and conduct a research project.  The unit provides an opportunity for students, under the guidance of their supervisors to plan and implement a research project related to midwifery which results in the production of a written thesis of between 15,000 to 20,000 words in length, which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours). Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level. Learning Outcomes Investigate a midwifery related issue or problem in depth through a review of the literature
Identify a researchable question related to a midwifery issue or problem
Develop a research proposa
Obtain formal approvals for research, e.g. ethical approval, where required
Perform data collection and data analysis relevant to the research proposal
Contribute to discussions about the research process with professional colleagues
Produce a thesis of the prescribed length and format which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 15,000-20,000 words. 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) (4784) Nursing (NURS)