Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 2011 The Qur'an: An Introduction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101911 Coordinator Jan Ali Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction, in English translation, to the most important text of Islam, the Qur'an, which Muslims regard as the primary source of Islam. Students will study: the origins of the Qur'an, its overall structure and content, major themes, approaches to its interpretation, and its function in Muslim religious, social, cultural and political life. The themes and topics covered (such as God, ethics, women, state, inter-faith relations, and violence) should assist students in understanding contemporary debates on the relevance of Islam today. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Religious Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 1061 - Islam Past Present and Future Equivalent Subjects LANG 2017 - Great Texts of Islam Qur'an and Hadith Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a basic understanding of the origins of the Qur'an, its overall structure and content, major themes, approaches to its interpretation and its functions in Muslim religious and socio-political life
Analyse prevailing debates on the relevance of the Qur'an today
Draw relationships between the Qur'an and other key texts such as Hadiths of Islam Subject Content . Introducing the Qur'an and its Context
. The Nature and Meaning of Revelation in the Qur'an and in the Islamic Tradition
. The History of the Holy Text and What is Meant by Scripture in Islam
. Major Themes of the Qur'an
. The Qur'an in Daily Life
. The Qur'an and Modern Western Scholarship
. Language and the Qur'an
. The Qur'an and Other Religions
. Islamic Law and the Qur'an
. The Qur'an and Interpretation
. Approaches to Interpretation: Mysticism, Theology and the Qur'an
. Early Modern and Contemporary Qur'anic Studies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 500 words x 2 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jan Ali Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Jan Ali Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Law (LAWS) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)