Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 7008 Instrumentation and Measurement (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300515 Coordinator Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window Description This subject covers topics associated with the measurement and presentation of physical parameters. A wide range of transducers are presented in detail, while instrumentation includes a detailed analysis of a multitude of analogue and digital circuits used to amplify, transmit, and display electrical signals. The application of these modules in modern measurement equipment is presented in details. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electronic Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Instrumentation and Measurement (PG). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain limitations of and apply a wide range of transducers
Design and analyse systems used for process control
Explain the techniques and trade-offs involved in A/D and D/A conversion
Design and specify requirements for interfacing a large number of analogue signals to a digital controller
Design complete instrumentation systems Subject Content Transducers
Amplification techniques (signal conditioning)
Digital-to-analogue conversion
Analog-to-digital conversion
Digital devices Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 5 A4 pages 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 5 A4 pages 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Biomedical, Testamur Major (T055) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical and Telecommunication, Testamur Major (T113) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Mechanical and Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T112) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Telecommunication and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T115) Telecommunication, Testamur Major (T075)