Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7084 Start-up Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 200971 Coordinator Carla Duarte de Jesus Dias Wadewitz Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point subject over two Quarters, 20 weeks in total, 10 credit points in each Quarter. Developing start-ups and rejuvenating existing businesses are essential for industry and regional development and regeneration. This subject provides students with the knowledge, tools and skills to develop innovative ideas into prototype products and services and start-up businesses.
Working within Launch Pad, Western’s technology business incubator, students build the capacity to evaluate opportunities and generate innovative business ideas, incorporating diverse perspectives. Students are supported to develop foundational skills in finance, management and business law in order to take action and implement business ideas. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions - Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the business environment and organisational structures, business communications skills, business strategy, as well as substantial knowledge in the discipline. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge and skills of innovation standards, practices and processes to business problems.
Generate innovative, sustainable and ethical business solutions for entrepreneurial or intrapreneurial contexts.
Evaluate proposals, business solutions, projects and capabilities in relation to innovation.
Communicate concepts to diverse audiences in a clear, ethical manner and in multiple formats
Collaborate with stakeholders and peers to take action and implement ideas and plans. Subject Content Design thinking for innovation & startups 
Principles of entrepreneurship
Business models & plans
Innovation standards & framework 
Systems thinking in problem-solving
Innovation and entrepreneurship capabilities Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,500 words 25 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2,500 words, and 15 minute presentation 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Carla Duarte de Jesus Dias Wadewitz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Carla Duarte de Jesus Dias Wadewitz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Certificate in Start Up Scale Up (2821) Graduate Diploma in Start Up Scale Up (2820) Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Testamur Major (T008) Master of Business Administration (2761) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)