Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1036 Construction Communication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301213 Coordinator Qinjun Liu Opens in new window Description This subject encourages students to explore professional responsibilities and challenges faced by construction professionals. Students are introduced to the construction profession through the use of industry case studies and project problems. Students engage in a research and problem-solving task that addresses sustainability imperatives and fosters fundamental research and communication skills. Special emphasis is placed on academic and business literacy, project management and teamwork which equip students for subsequent academic and professional contexts. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1016 - Engineering Design Construction Practice ENGR 1029 - Professional Competencies ENGR 1033 - Engineering Design and Construction Practice (UWSC) LGYB 0482 - Engineering Design and Construction Practice (UWSC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1030 - Professional Competencies Restrictions Must be enrolled in the following programs: 2607 Bachelor of Construction Management, 3762 Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours), 3727 Bachelor of Building Design Management, 3692 Bachelor of Construction Technology, 3782 Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and reflect upon the roles and responsibilities of construction professionals
Deploy information literacy skills to investigate a construction problem, consider alternate approaches and evaluate possible solutions
Recommend and argue for, feasible, innovative and sustainable solutions to problems
Deploy academic and business literacy skills including report writing, argument construction and referencing
Communicate research outcomes clearly and professionally in visual and verbal presentations
Plan, manage and actively contribute to a team based project Subject Content 1. Communication skills: written, visual and verbal presentations
2. Roles and responsibilities of construction professionals
3. Academic and Business literacy skills
4. Problem-solving
5. Critical thinking
6. Information literacy and the research process
7. Time and project management
8. Industry case studies
9. Sustainable and Innovative approaches Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 15 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words plus 3 minute presentation 20 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words per student plus 15 minute group presentation.  55 N Group/Individual Y  Quiz 10 activities comprising of 150 word journal entries OR short online quizzes OR in-class tutorial activities 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Brendan Kirkland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Brendan Kirkland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Qinjun Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Qinjun Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)