Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3051 Innovation in Design and Delivery Credit Points 10 Coordinator Graham Jones Opens in new window Description What is innovation? Innovation can be thought of as the application of existing knowledge or processes to solve a problem. Innovation requires an interdisciplinary approach to problem solving, encompassing discipline-specific knowledge, as well as an awareness of social, economic, and environmental factors. You will work as part of a team to use existing data or processes to deliver an innovative solution to a problem. In this subject you will develop important job-ready skills to translate ideas into outcomes. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes 1. Appraise opportunities for innovation based on existing data or knowledge 2. Design a project and produce project documentation for that project 3. Present the project design to a target audience in a persuasive and engaging manner 4. Evaluate the opportunities for applying the outcome of the project, including the sustainability of the project 5. Work effectively and collaboratively in a team to propose an innovation 6. Reflect critically on the process and propose strategies for future improvements Subject Content 1. Invention and innovation
2. Identifying a problem that builds on existing knowledge
3. Effective teamwork
4. Persuasive communication
5. Project design: constraints; timelines and reporting; budgets and outcomes
6. Evaluating the design process and outcomes of the project Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2000 words or equivalent 30 N Individual N  Proposal 2000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Group N  Reflection 1000 words 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Innovating For Humans, Minor (0288) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)