Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3057 Topics in Pharmacology Credit Points 10 Description This subject builds on basic pharmacological principles and concepts, extending to advanced pharmacokinetics in the study of absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination (ADME) of pharmaceutical drugs in human body. Students will understand the processes of bioavailability and bioequivalence testing of generic and innovator drugs. This subject also covers the drug development process including stages of drug discovery, preclinical development, clinical development, drug approval and post-market drug safety monitoring., Phases of clinical development, types and design of clinical trials, drug regulatory and pharmacovigilance procedures will be introduced. This subject will also investigate the research methods used in pharmacological enquiry and investigate the cellular signalling pathways targeted by different life-saving drugs. Pharmacogenetics, genetic polymorphism and its impact on drug metabolism and precision medicine will be covered. Drug toxicity and drug-induced organ toxicity will also be discussed. Practical classes and computer simulations will support the key concepts taught in this subject. School Science Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 2045 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3754 Bachelor of Science, 3757 Bachelor of Advanced Science, 3755 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3758 Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science, 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary), 6042 Diploma in Science/ Bachelor of Medical Science, 6043 Diploma in Science. Bachelor of Science Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain the concepts and principles of advanced pharmacokinetics in ADME, bioavailability and bioequivalence testing of drugs
Demonstrate mathematically the pharmacokinetic and mechanistic aspects of the bioavailability and elimination of drugs in the body
Discuss the different sources of drugs and describe research methods used in drug discovery and development
Describe the different preclinical stages of drug development and evaluation. 
Describe the stages of new drug development, the types and phases of clinical trials and the regulatory framework for pharmacotherapies
Demonstrate and calculate mathematically the safety and efficacy testing of drugs and its parameters
Evaluate the research methods of toxicology and drug/toxin-induced organ toxicity testing Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 2 hours/week 10 N Individual N  Critical Review 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Pharmacology, Minor ( 0341)