Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2041 Experimental Foods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301455 Coordinator Christine Hutchison Opens in new window Description Developing innovative foods requires an understanding of food science and the principles that are applied when experimenting with food ingredients and processes. This subject will enable you to gain the scientific knowledge and methodology skills the food industry employs in the sustainable production of nutritious, healthy and appealing foods.  Understanding the physical and chemical properties of, and current process techniques to produce different food types, will enable you to develop attributes required by the world's largest employment sector. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the physical and chemical properties of food commodities.
Articulate the design principles and experimental procedures, related to recipe development.
Describe the scientific principles and skills applied in development of experimental foods. Subject Content 1. Carbohydrate, Protein and Lipid systems.
2. Biological and Chemical leavening.
3. Sensory and physical characteristics and quality of experimental foods.
4. Principles of sustainable recipe development and experimental food preparation.
5. Experimental procedure and recipe development for different consumer communities. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 6x 30min 30 N Individual N  Report 3x 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Christine Hutchison Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)