Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1035 Anatomy and Physiology in Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301350 Coordinator Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the levels of structural organisation of the human body together with scientific and medical terminology used in anatomy and physiology. It deals with gross structure and function of the major organ systems of the human body and where appropriate, a brief outline of environmental factors and personal health practices that affect optimal human body function will be introduced. It also deals with basic biomechanics of musculoskeletal system. School Science Discipline Human Biology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7033 - Human Medical Sciences 1 LGYA 5170 - Physical and Biological Sciences 1 LGYB 7586 - Human Biology 1 BIOS 1023 - Introduction to Human Biology (WSTC) BIOS 1022 - Introduction to Human Biology BIOS 1038 - Anatomy and Physiology in Health (WSTC) Incompatible Subjects NATS 1013 - Introduction to Anatomy BIOS 1025 - Introduction to Physiology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and use the scientific and medical terminology of anatomy and physiology to accurately describe the location and function of organs and organ systems of the human body;
Describe the levels of structural organisation of the human body;
Identify the structure and function of different tissue types and organs;
Explain the basic anatomy and physiology of the major body systems including integumentary, skeletal, muscular, nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic, immune, respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems
Determine the environmental and personal health practices affecting optimal function of human body;
Describe the biomechanics of human musculoskeletal system. Subject Content 1. Scientific and medical terminology in anatomy and physiology
2. Levels of structural organisation of human body
3. Gross structure and function of major organ systems of human body as listed below. Where appropriate, environmental factors and personal health practices affecting optimal function of human body
(a) The integumentary system
(b) The skeletal system
(c) The muscular system
(d) The nervous system
(e) The endocrine system
(f) The cardiovascular system
(g) The lymphatic system and immunity
(h) The respiratory system
(i) The digestive system
(j) The urinary system
(k) The reproductive system
4. Biomechanics of human musculoskeletal system Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 quizzes. 30 minutes/quiz   30 N Individual N  Participation 10 weeks 10 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Summer The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz (4.3% each) 7 quizzes. 45 minutes/quiz 30 N Individual   Participation 9 weeks 10 N Individual   Case Study 500 words 20 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Biomedical Engineering, Concentration (0122) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Health Promotion, Major (0052) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Public Health, Major (0055) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110)