Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2031 The Music Industry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102854 Coordinator David Cashman Opens in new window Description From Autumn 2024, this subject is replaced by PERF 2033 Recording Studio Practices. In this subject students will be given an overview of the music industry, applying music industry theory to real-life situations, and working on real-world projects such as creating a unique image for an artist or band, and promoting and marketing a live gig. Responsibilities, and the pros and cons of going solo or working as a group will be explored together with income generation through record sales, live performance, song publishing, merchandise, and sponsorship. Other aspects, such as artist management, copyright, and contracts, will be covered along with the independent musician and new DIY models for the fast-paced, high-tech world of the future. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 2009 - Digital Music 3 - Composition Crossovers PERF 2013 - Introduction to the Sound Studio PERF 2022 - Studio Production PERF 2026 - Advanced Production Assumed Knowledge Students enrolling in this subject are assumed to have a basic working knowledge of computer music and sound recording technologies and concepts, and safe working practices. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a knowledge of music industry theories and their application to practical scenarios.
Evaluate, contrast, and defend judgements about artist management, publishing, distribution, promotion and marketing, music copyright, and contractual agreements in different artist/music employment settings.
Create a unique image or brand for a band or solo artist.
Promote a live music event that includes a comprehensive marketing plan.
Critically evaluate the common income streams used in the music industry.
Apply professional judgment and initiative when dealing with the complexity, ambiguity, and diversity of DIY models in the fast-changing music business environment.
Situate the working, present-day musician in the broad historical context of the music industry.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Subject Content Overview of the music industry
Music, branding and the independent musician
Income streams
Live music
Music publishing, copyright
Artist management (independent or by agent)
Distribution, promotion, and marketing of the musical product
Contractual agreements (publishing, management, band and other music business related obligations) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 150 words per week 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1,250 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 7 minutes 35 N Individual N  Participation  S/U Y Individual N Structures that include subject Music Production, Minor (0079) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF)