Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 1004 Feeding the Planet Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300804 Coordinator Priti Krishna Opens in new window Description This subject will explore the concepts driving current food production science (population growth, urbanization, emerging affluence, resource constraints, and underlying biological limits) in terms of their universal life cycles, constraints to production and societal issues. Throughout the subject, key questions will be addressed: What are the major health benefits and potential concerns regarding the intensification of production and consumption of food? How does agricultural production affect the efficient use of resources and impact our environment? Can costs of production be reduced to meet the growing demand for food products around the globe while maintaining health and safety for consumers? What are the different types of food production systems? Myths and misconceptions surrounding the food systems will be discussed and analysed. The subject is geared towards learners who seek a greater understanding of food systems and have a desire to learn more about issues surrounding sustainability. School Science Discipline Agricultural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6095 - Primary Production Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving Exercise equivalent to 30 minutes of problem solving 10 N Individual   Report on sustainability of farm enterprise 2000 word report 20 N Individual   Practical report 1500 words 30 N Individual   In-class quizzes 4 quizzes of equal weighting (5%) held in class sessions = 30 minutes 20 N Individual   Presentation : Poster presentation on sustainability of a farm enterprise 15 minute presentation 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Natural Science, Major (0213) Social Sciences, Major (0216)