Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7013 Special Topics in Philosophy Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102379 Coordinator Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window Description The Special Topics in Philosophy subject engages with current debates and developments in philosophy. These contemporary debates will be contextualized within the historical and conceptual framework of the continental tradition of philosophical inquiry. Engagement with contemporary topics in philosophy and the most recent developments in the field will enable students to find what is innovative and original in their own thought and field of research. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advanced and integrated knowledge of distinct varieties of Continental philosophy in their contexts from a range of periods and places
Demonstrate depth of reading and understanding of continental philosophy topics.
Synthesize changing theories, methods, and concepts in Continental philosophy
Write at a high level in a range of critical and philosophical idioms. Subject Content - subject content will include key themes, sets of texts, and figures that are relevant to The M.A. in Continental philosophy
- this subject will be devoted to deepening the students' knowledge of the history of philosophy, their understanding of the complexity of philosophical problems, and the contemporary - especially Continental - forms in which those problems are addressed Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio - Journal 2000 words (5 x 400) 35 N Individual   Essay 5500 words 65 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)