Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2007 Fundamentals of Medical Concepts and Terminology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300950 Coordinator Jim Basilakis Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide the student with the knowledge necessary to understand the information contained in the health record, to function in a medical environment through an understanding of the fundamentals of medicine and to effectively use disease classification systems. Within each body system, the student will study anatomy and physiology, disease processes and their treatment, and medical terminology (disease titles, symptomatic terms, surgical terms and investigations). The subject will also focus on specialist topics such as mental health, obstetrics, paediatrics, infectious diseases, oncology, radiotherapy, nuclear medicine, diagnostic and surgical interventions. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Other Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFS 2004 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse clinical terms structurally into roots, suffixes, prefixes and combining forms;
Accurately spell and pronounce clinical terms;
Explain the basic structure, function, disease processes and treatment relating to the major body systems;
Identify commonly used drugs and understand how to utilise the Monthly Index of Medical Specialities (MIMS) as a pharmaceutical prescribing reference guide.
Use and interpret clinical terms documented in health records. Subject Content 1. Introduction to medicine and medical terminology;
2. Terms and conditions relating to all the body systems;
3. Terms relating to interventions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Viva Voce 10 Mins 20 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 10 Mins 20 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 5 minutes per student 15 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 20 minutes 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hybrid Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hybrid Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hybrid Subject Contact Jim Basilakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Health Informatics, Minor (0037) Health Informatics, Testamur Major (T007) Other Health (HLTH) Public Health (PUBH)