Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7002 Analytic Approaches in Epidemiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401175 Coordinator Andrew Page Opens in new window Description This subject extends the basic principles of epidemiology introduced in 401076 'Introduction to Epidemiology' and equips students with practical analytical skills to design and conduct epidemiological studies. The subject considers the principle models of causation and analytical approaches to epidemiological study design and analysis. Students will use causal diagrams and evidence from the literature to develop analytic strategies for specific study designs, develop practical skills in calculating and interpreting measures of association and effect modification, and be introduced to principles and strategies for quantitative bias analysis. School Medicine Discipline Epidemiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 7016 OR
PUBH 7015 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Introductory skills in epidemiology, including measures of disease frequency and association, epidemiologic study designs, and principles of bias and confounding. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the principle models of causation in epidemiology
Apply causal criteria in appraising epidemiological evidence
Calculate and interpret epidemiological measures of association and effect measure modification
Compare and contrast conceptual approaches to the conduct and design of epidemiological studies
Develop appropriate analytic strategies to assess the strength of an association between a given exposure and outcome
Conduct quantitative bias analysis of an observed association, including assessment of unmeasured confounding, selection bias, and measurement bias Subject Content 1. Models of causation in epidemiology
2. Epidemiological measures and concepts of interaction
3. Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) to guide study design and statistical analysis
4. The design, conduct and analysis of studies in epidemiology
5. Analytic approaches to confounding, selection bias, and measurement bias Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 2500 words 30 N Individual N  Short Answer 2000 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Andrew Page Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Andrew Page Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Science (3749) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Public Health (PUBH)