Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2016 Health Variations 3 - Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401210 Coordinator Asiye Kopan Opens in new window Description Health Variations 3 - Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Conditions utilises an evidence base to develop an understanding of pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and nursing care for people who experience acute exacerbations of chronic conditions. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 2037 - Health Variations 1 - Introduction to Alterations in Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the causes, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic procedures concerning acute exacerbations of chronic conditions.
Develop an understanding of the National Safety and Quality Care framework and the implications for nursing practice in relation to caring for people who experience an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition.
Justify the selection and prioritisation of nursing strategies to provide safe effective and evidence based nursing care for people who experience an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition.
Assess appropriate, safe, effective, and evidence-based treatments for people who experience an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition. Subject Content a. Pathophysiology & Clinical Manifestations
b. Pharmacology
c. Diagnosis Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Asiye Kopan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Asiye Kopan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Melanie Bingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)