Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4012 Occupational Therapy Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401122 Coordinator Rosalind Bye Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is for students to critically apply their knowledge of professional theory, practice, research and evaluation skills to the investigation of an occupational therapy professional issue of interest or concern. Students will apply unobtrusive research methods to investigate their chosen topic. Students develop an extensive knowledge of their chosen topic and critically analyse the implications of their findings in terms of theory, policy and contemporary health care practice.  Students will synthesise their findings into a scholarly research project report and present their findings at a professional-level capstone student conference. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 3005 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7014 - Occupational Therapy Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy. This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of issues and concerns relevant to the occupational therapy profession and occupational therapy clients and consumers. This knowledge will ideally have been gained in part by undertaking several fieldwork experiences in preceding years of the program. Learning Outcomes Formulate a problem to investigate that is relevant to occupational therapy theory, practice or reasoning.
Search for and critique a wide range of literature relating to a specific investigative problem.
Critically examine a range of unobtrusive research methods which may be suitable for investigating the problem and prepare a plan of the project.
Analyse ethical issues associated with the conduct of unobtrusive research.
Apply unobtrusive research methods of data collection and analysis appropriate to the project.
Synthesise information into an investigative project report that reflects a critical examination of the topic, with recommendations related to future occupational therapy practice, theory, national and international policy.
Present a professional standard conference abstract and presentation.
Work collaboratively and in a self-directed manner with other students to complete the above objectives. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Proposal 750 words 20 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rosalind Bye Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)