Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1020 Language and Literacy 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102118 Coordinator Julie Lennon Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The subject examines ways of enhancing children's language learning through speaking, listening, reading and writing as they begin to create and understand the oral, written and visual texts of their environment. Current literacy and language theories are examined. The diverse needs of learners are considered and appropriate teaching strategies to develop literacy skills are explored. Students will appreciate children's literature and the way it can be used to promote literacy and language learning in a variety of early learning contexts K-2. The subject prepares individuals for more advanced subjects involving language and literacy, and primary English teaching specialisation. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2004 - Language and Literacy 1 - AREP Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 - Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the nature of language acquisition and language development.
Describe the strategies that may be used in the teaching of reading K-6.
Engage in and utilise practical strategies to support children's literacy learning in a variety of contexts K-2.
Assess the impact of social, cultural, technological and political contexts and their effect on literacy learners in classroom contexts.
Utilise children's literature to promote literacy and language learning in a variety of learning contexts.
Analyse key theories about language learning and apply these to the construction of literacy lesson plans and programs Subject Content 1. Language acquisition
2. Nature and role of English as a language of communication for participation in society, through reading, writing, listening, speaking, viewing and representing experiences, values and ideas.
3. Mapping oral language onto written language
4. What is literacy? What is reading? How do we learn to read?
5. Broad and critical knowledge and understanding of English as a discipline, including recent theories of reading and the reading process
6. Teaching decoding - phonemic awareness and phonics
7. Strategies for teaching reading: shared reading, guided reading
8. Assessment of reading, running records
9. What makes good children's literature? Practise analysing children's books of varying text types: both fiction and non-fiction, including literature that provides insights into Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, multicultural perspectives and children?fs experiences.
10. Linking reading to writing in the early years
11. Multi-literacies and Critical Literacy
12. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 800 words 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1200 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1200 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Teacher Education (TEAC)