Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 6004 Sports Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tim Fuller Opens in new window Description The subject will provide students the opportunity to synthesise a number of areas of law in a practical way that enhances their employability and professionalism. It focuses on an emerging and developing subject area of law. This has been recognised internationally where the ‘specificity of sport’ refers to the inherent characteristics of sport that set it apart from other economic and social activities. Sport is a global industry.  Students will master an understanding of world sports law or lex sportiva, which is regarded as an autonomous body of rules having a specific character. Students will engage in professional learning activities to demonstrate their application of this body of law in practice. This subject will foster critical perspectives on discrimination in sport and the contribution of Indigenous people to sports law and policy in Australia. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7047 Contracts and LAWS 7072 Tort Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3087 Sports Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes Explain the development of sports law into its own distinctive body of law.
Analyse the jurisdiction of the Court of Arbitration for Sport and the adherence to lex sportiva.
Analyse the relationship between general legal principles and the regulatory framework in which sport operates
Apply professional legal research and/or advocacy skills to analyse legal issues concerning sport. 
Evaluate the contribution of Indigenous people to sports law and policy in Australia. Subject Content Sports law jurisprudence
Governance in sport
Tort and Sport
Integrity in sport
Anti-doping in sport
Sporting tribunals
Discrimination in sport
The contribution of Indigenous people to sport law and policy in Australia
Athlete well-being  
Sport agents
Sport sponsorship and athlete marketing
Children in sport
Broadcasting, media rights and social media
E-sports and cyber security
Employment and athlete Associations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 750 words 10 N Individual N  Professional Task Oral component- 15 minutes Written component 1500 words 50 N Individual N  Essay 4000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)