Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2076 The Classical Tradition Credit Points 10 Coordinator David Burchell Opens in new window Description The cultures and intellectual life of Ancient Greece and Rome influenced European life and thought for much of the succeeding two thousand years. But the greatest influence came with the ‘classical revival’ of the 1400s through to the 1700s, beginning with the ‘Renaissance’. This subject outlines several key themes in Ancient Culture: moral and political philosophy, literature, history, and rhetoric and the art of speaking, It then traces the later careers and revivals of these themes in the period 1400-1700. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points in the student’s current enrolled program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically assess the thought in a variety of disciplines in Ancient and Early Modern culture
Interpret and analyse primary historical sources.
Evaluate some of the key historiographic debates around the revival of Classical thought in the Renaissance and afterwards.
Discuss the survival and revival of Classical culture into the early modern and modern worlds. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes talk and 250 words summary 10 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 750 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 1000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact David Burchell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Burchell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact David Burchell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Ancient History, Minor (0262) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Ancient History Education, Major (0352) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)