Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1046 Managing and Leading Enterprises (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description Organisations need to respond to the ever-changing and increasingly complex global environment. The goal of this subject is to address this organisational requirement. You will learn the fundamentals of business management and leadership to acquire the competencies required by businesses. You will learn to motivate teams, make decisions, and manage people and enterprises, which are valuable skills for career advancement. Managing and Leading Enterprise will prepare students for effective professional and managerial careers. This subject will be beneficial if you aspire to start and manage your own business. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Recognise opportunities for responsible and mutually beneficial business partnerships with indigenous communities as stakeholders in business operations.   
Identify the leadership challenges and opportunities associated with each stage of the business life cycle.  
Demonstrate proficiency in reporting and presenting skills that are suitable for a multicultural business environment.  
Explain the functions of management for effective leadership, team dynamics and decision-making in organisations.  
Identify the ethical responsibility of management to sustainable goals that include social, environmental and economic.
Identify appropriate people and managerial processes for different enterprise scenarios. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract 300 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 1600 words 30 N Group N  Professional Task 5 minutes 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)