Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3025 Incubator 5: Operational Aspects of Entrepreneurship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301170 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description  Operations encompasses essential components that enable a business to function effectively. This includes strategy, marketing, personnel and finance and the identification of opportunities for innovation. In this subject, students review case studies that explore business operations, enhancing their ability to comprehend  the planning needed for entrepreneurs to conduct operations effectively. An integral component involves students developing a business plan with a focus on the operational aspects of new ventures or business concept. The subject is relevant for careers in entrepreneurship, consulting and management. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Analyse the resource requirements for a business including financial, human, physical and intellectual requirements.
2. Examine the dynamic nature of operations and role of innovation in strategic planning.
3. Demonstrate strategic thinking in developing a credible business plan.
4. Apply communication and collaboration skills to complete tasks in a timely and ethical manner.
5. Reflect on professional actions and capabilities in relation to entrepreneurship, innovation and operations. Subject Content 1. The role of operations for launching a new venture or startup
2. Operational strategy and planning
3. Marketing strategy
4. Financial, human, physical and intellectual resourcing
5. Identifying and managing opportunities for innovation Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2 x Essays 600-700 words  (per Essay)  plus a video  7 minutes 30 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 40 N Group N  Viva Voce 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Business and Management (BUSM) Design Practice, Major (0225) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)