Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2001 Active and Healthy Childhoods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102669 Coordinator Prathyusha Sanagavarapu Opens in new window Description Early childhood educators are responsible for promoting the health, safety and wellbeing of young children from birth to five years including children from vulnerable backgrounds. This includes children from migrant, low SES, refugee and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander backgrounds. This subject focuses on developing students’ understandings of holistic health, safety, nutrition, and wellbeing of young children. It also assists students to recognise the factors that impact on children’s socio-emotional wellbeing and promote resilience. This subject promotes students’ ability to identify, source, and apply relevant policies and resources to respond to children’s emerging health and wellbeing issues in collaboration with various stakeholders and by taking into consideration the children’s and families’ rights, needs, values and cultural practices. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Education) or 1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) Learning Outcomes Examine the changing health and wellbeing needs of young children.
Discuss the essential elements and theories of physical health, safety, nutrition, and holistic wellbeing in early childhood years.
Recognise the factors that impact on children’s socio-emotional wellbeing and promote resilience.
Analyse the importance of promoting physical and fundamental movement skills through areas such as dance, gymnastics, games and sports and a range of physical and outdoor activities.
Examine factors supporting healthy relationships and promote these in a professional capacity.
Apply policies and guidelines, to engage with childhood health and wellbeing issues and promote safe and healthy early childhood environments.
Apply strategies for working in partnership with health professionals, referral agencies and support personnel in promoting holistic health and wellbeing in early childhood settings. Subject Content Module 1: Understanding safety, holistic health and wellbeing of children: birth-5 years

Physical health
Hygiene
Safety and risk
Nutrition
Socio-emotional wellbeing
Physical movement


Module 2: Health and wellbeing issues

Current issues in children’s physical health
Chronic illnesses
Mental health including bullying 


Module 3: Positive relationships and communication

Relationships 
Identity development
Positive communication


Module 4: What guides healthy environments in early childhood contexts

Policies 
National and State Health programmes and initiatives 


Module 5: Promoting holistic health and wellbeing in early childhood settings

Preventative health
Holistic approach to planning healthy environments in early childhood
Applying policies and research in health promotion
Developing partnerships and linkages with the wider community. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 800 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Prathyusha Sanagavarapu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Prathyusha Sanagavarapu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Prathyusha Sanagavarapu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Teacher Education (TEAC)