Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2015 Out-of-hospital Medical Care 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401074 Coordinator Rachael Vella Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to extend knowledge and clinical skills required for the assessment and management of cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological medical emergencies. The subject combines pathophysiological principles development of skills and interpretation of diagnostic technology with clinical decision-making to implement advanced life support. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2029 or
NATS 2038 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 2018 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify patient presentations and select appropriate pre hospital treatment plans
Integrate patient history and pathophysiology of cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological emergencies into the pre hospital assessment and treatment
Discuss the epidemiology and consequences of acute cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological emergencies
Provide an evidence-based justification for guidelines relating to cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological emergencies
Demonstrate competency in interpretation of ECGs
Provide constructive feedback and integrate feedback into future performance.
Provide constructive feedback and integrate feedback into future performance Subject Content 1.Pathophysiology of cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological emergencies
2.Australian Resuscitation Council guidelines for managing resuscitation at an advanced skill level
3.ECG monitoring, analysis and interpretation
4.Clinical decision-making related to termination of resuscitation
5.Assessment, treatment and evidence-based clinical decision-making in relation to adult respiratory medical emergencies
6.Assessment, treatment and evidence-based clinical decision-making in relation to adult neurological medical emergencies
7.Importance of providing and receiving feedback in a out-of-hospital setting
1. Pathophysiology of cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological emergencies
2. Australian Resuscitation Council guidelines for managing resuscitation at an advanced skill level
3. ECG monitoring, analysis and interpretation
4. Clinical decision-making related to termination of resuscitation
5. Assessment, treatment and evidence-based clinical decision-making in relation to adult respiratory medical emergencies
6. Assessment, treatment and evidence-based clinical decision-making in relation to adult neurological medical emergencies
7. Importance of providing and receiving feedback in a out-of-hospital setting Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 x 30 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 45 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,500 words  25 N Individual Y  Literature Review 1,500 words  25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rachael Vella Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)