Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7034 Professional Placement 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102695 Coordinator Brooke Donnelly Opens in new window Description This placement subject is an external placement that provides students the opportunity to practise, under clinical supervision, clinical psychological assessment and intervention to a range of clients across age ranges, severity levels and psychological disorders. The aim is to build upon and extend knowledge, skills, relationship and professional attitude competencies acquired during a supervised University Clinic placement while working with real clients seeking clinical psychological services within an external agency. Each external placement must comprise approximately 350 hours [with a minimum of 200 hours] of clinical psychology practicum work of which at least 80 hours must be in face-to-face client work, and all internal and external placements together must comprise a minimum of 1000 practicum hours of which 400 hours must be in face-to-face client work as defined by APAC. 
Placements are arranged by the Placement Coordinator who is responsible for ensuring that the placement and supervision meet APAC requirements. 
Students must participate in the mandatory workshops and present a case at the relevant Case Presentation Day (or equivalent by permission in special circumstances). School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7006 Clinic Placement and BEHV 7033 Professional Placement 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology. Assumed Knowledge Readiness for external placement as assessed in Clinic Placement A in the University’s Psychology clinic. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate core clinical psychology assessment competencies in the treatment of common psychological problems, including with culturally diverse populations, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, at a developmentally appropriate level (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.9, 4.2.1, 4.2.2.i-iii, 4.2.3iv).
Demonstrate core evidence-based clinical psychology intervention competencies in the treatment of common psychological problems, including with culturally diverse populations, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, at a developmentally appropriate level (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.3, 3.7, 3.9, 4.2.2iv, 4.2.3i, ii, iv).
Demonstrate therapist-client and supervisee-supervisor relationship competencies in the treatment of a range of client populations and across several psychological disorders at a developmentally appropriate level (APAC GA: 3.10, 3.11, 3.12).
Display professionalism, professional communication competencies, ethical judgment and ethical conduct in accordance with the Code of Conduct endorsed by the Psychology Board of Australia and meet all of the program inherent requirements. This includes professional engagement with and showing respect for the skills and contributions of other involved professionals (APAC GA: 3.3, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12 & 3.13).
Demonstrate scientist-practitioner and reflective practitioner meta-competencies at the advanced-beginner level (APAC GA: 3.12, 3.14 & 3.15).
Comply with accreditation requirements concerning practicum, casework and supervision hours (APAC GA: 3.1-3.17, 4.2.1, 4.2.2 & 4.2.3).
Conceptualise and communicate clinical information at the formal professional level (APAC GA: 3.5, 3.6, 3.8, 3.11 & 3.16). Subject Content Supervised placement in a setting relevant to the specific program.
Attendance and participation in placement experience workshops.
Present a case at the Case Presentation Day (or equivalent by permission in special circumstances). Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance Placement supervisor assess intern’s performance at the end of the placement using a standard competencies assessment rating form. S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook Must be submitted within 2 weeks of completing placement. Graded by Placement Coordinator S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Case Study 2,000 words + references S/U Y Individual Y  Simulation 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Bankstown City Hybrid Subject Contact Brooke Donnelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Brooke Donnelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812)