Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7010 New Genres in Research Writing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102662 Coordinator Anna Gibbs Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on new, innovative, interdisciplinary genres of writing arising after the putative end of critique and with the rise of non-representational thought. These new writing practices mix genres and meld theoretical, critical and creative modes. Focusing on fictocriticism, creative nonfiction, documentary fiction and the multi-media essay, we explore the experimental ethos and affective and new materialist methodologies to which these forms lend themselves. Students will develop a body of original creative-critical work in any genre through a series of seminars and writing workshops. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically reflect on the new interdisciplinary forms of writing across the Humanities.
Explain writing as a research practice.
Critically evaluate complex information, perspectives, and theories relevant to new scholarly writing practices.
Creatively stage or perform theoretical propositions, methodologies and conclusions through analysis through critical-creative writing strategies.
Demonstrate creative and technical skills to bring complex concepts to life in a practical project.
Design and execute a substantial research-based project with a high level of autonomy and accountability. Subject Content Seminars will address the history and practice of new forms of writing arising across the humanities disciplines, with reference to particular examples. Students will also participate in writing workshops to develop their own projects on the basis of a series of individual and collaborative exercises engaging practically and experientially with the concepts addressed in the unit.
1. Writing, subjectivity and corporeality
2. Reflexivity and intertextuality in new research genres
3. The politics of form: genre, gender, race and ethnicity
4. Hybrid writing and generic mixing
5. Questions of address, authority and authorisation
6. After critique: experimental method
7. Affective and new materialist methodologies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer - submission of 2 class exercises 1,000 words 35 N Individual   Applied project - Critical Creative essay (4,000 words)
OR Creative - Critical project plus (1,000 word) critical reflection (3,000 words total) Essay - 4,000 words
Creative project plus reflection 3,000 words 65 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Communication and Media (COMM)