Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7012 Clinical Research Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101814 Coordinator Renu Narchal Opens in new window Description The ability to understand and critique empirical research findings, and to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic interventions, is essential to the professional psychologist as a scientist-practitioner. This subject equips students with advanced skills in utilising the research literature to guide and enhance their professional practice, design interventions to test clinically relevant hypotheses, and critically evaluate the effectiveness of existing research based on empirical evidence. It includes instruction in both quantitative and qualitative research design, program evaluation, single case designs and pilot studies. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0492 - Advanced Research Design Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1546 Master of Psychology (Clinical Psychology), 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology or 1814 Master of Professional Psychology. Assumed Knowledge Years 1-4 Undergraduate psychology level research design, methods, and analysis. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise research design and methodology as a way of thinking, problem-solving, and approaching substantive clinically-relevant research questions (APAC GA: 3.2).
Evaluate and critique theoretical and applied literature to inform research evidence-based practice (APAC GA: 3.16, 4.2.1i & 4.2.3iv).
Evaluate a range of research methodologies to design a project that assesses clinical outcomes in psychology practice, including relevant transdisciplinary research for inter-professional practice (APAC GA: 3.9 & 3.17).
Conduct and report on a single case design project in relation to a clinically relevant area (APAC GA: 3.8 & 3.17). Subject Content Evidence-Based Practice and principles of research design and implementation.
Program and service evaluation.
Single-case experimental designs (SCEDs).
Pilot studies, assessing feasibility and acceptability.
Quasi-experimental designs and Randomised Control Trials.
Systematic Reviews, Meta-analysis, and Clinical Practice Guidelines and transdisciplinary research.
Qualitative Research Designs and Analyses.
Designing a project or developing an assessment process in professional psychology practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,500 words 35 Y Individual Y  Case Study 2,000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Professional Task 1,000 words 25 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Andrew McKinnon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew McKinnon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812) Master of Professional Psychology (1814)