Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0056 Advanced Communication for Social Science (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Maria Charalambous Opens in new window Description Communication underpins all aspects of Social Science interaction. This subject is designed for Social Science students to gain tertiary level Academic communication skills which can be transferred across subjects through student-centred active learning techniques and strategies. The subject further develops foundational skills students possess and introduces the concept and application of critical analysis. The use of authentic genres and writing techniques common in academic writing in the field of Social Science leads to the improvement of critical literacy skills related to spoken and written genres. School Western Sydney The College Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in The College in the programs listed: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically read, summarise, analyse and synthesise ideas from academic texts in Social Science.
Communicate clearly using advanced features of academic writing.
Integrate evidence into texts to support ideas and follow Social Scientific referencing conventions.
Communicate orally in formal contexts using effective presentation techniques. Subject Content Academic communication in the fields of Social Science
Academic writing skills: developing and applying features of academic and professional language
Academic reading skills: identifying, highlighting and applying key ideas, arguments and evidence
Academic Integrity: the importance and application of referencing, citation and paraphrasing
Academic writing skills: summarising, paraphrasing, critiquing and synthesizing
Academic writing skills: the essay writing process including the achievement of coherence and cohesion
Critical thinking and reflection for academic work within the Social Science field
Oral Presentation skills: language and presentation techniques to engage audiences in the social sciences Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review Part A: 200 words (10%); Part B: 750 words (30%) 40 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 6 minutes 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Language and Literature (LANG)