Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3002 Data Visualisation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102269 Coordinator Sarah Waterson Opens in new window Description We live in an era of data. The designer's role is increasingly one of structuring and transforming data into accessible and meaningful information. In this subject students will be introduced to basic techniques for the visual representation of data. This subject covers both how to design successful charts, maps, and diagrams, as well as how to use these graphics to compose cohesive storytelling pieces. Students will also discuss both practical and theoretical issues when visualising data, and how Graphic Design and Interactive Design principles apply to the visualisation of information. Students will learn how to design basic infographics and mock ups for interactive visualisations, and they will develop skills to start producing compelling and elegant infographics and data visualisation. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1021 OR
DESN 1007 Assumed Knowledge Students should have at least moderate skills in producing documents or illustrations using Photoshop and Illustrator. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an applied understanding of the key techniques and theories used in visualisation, including data models, graphical perception and techniques for visual encoding and interaction
Identify the common data domains and corresponding analysis tasks, including multivariate data, networks, text and cartography.
Build and evaluate visualisations from data.
Use data to tell a story. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words (approx.) 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 750 words (approx.) and design work
 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 750 words (approx.) and design work
 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sarah Waterson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6013) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)