Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7008 Ethics and Diversity in Research and Therapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102357 Coordinator Shiri Hergass Opens in new window Description From 2022 this subject replaced by WELF6001 - Ethics and Diversity in Counselling for students enrolled in 1817 - Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling only. This subject introduces students to key considerations for practicing therapy and research in a diverse and neo-colonial context. Students will study the emergence of research in the arts therapy profession and explore connections and tensions between personal, professional and research ethics. Through close reading of professional documents, case studies and research papers, students will examine how the 'subjects' of therapy and research are conceptualised and constructed. From a perspective that links knowledge and power, students will look at what the published research says about what works and how in therapy; ask whom therapy and research work for; and examine the work these therapy and research practices do. School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 7036 - Research in the Social Sciences WELF6001 - Ethics and Diversity in Counselling Restrictions Must be enrolled in 4595 M. Art Therapy or 8083, 8084, 8085, 8086, 8087 Bachelor of Research/Master of Research. Assumed Knowledge Concurrent or previous study of any foundational subject in either counselling or art therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the key discourses and power relations that shape professional, clinical and research practice in the arts therapies.
Critically evaluate what constitutes research evidence in the arts therapies and other psychotherapies.
Formulate a sound basis for ethical and relational decision-making in therapy and research.
Reflect on one's own positioning and intersectionality, in order to work sensitively with diverse therapy and research participants.
Engage art therapy as a practice of social justice to counter ongoing effects of colonisation and the widespread inequities that bring people to therapy. Subject Content History and significance of research in the psychotherapies and arts therapy.
Evidence in the psychotherapies
Values and ethics in arts therapy research and clinical practice.
Ethical considerations and scenarios for arts therapy research and practice within a culturally and socially diverse and neo-colonial context.
Historical and emerging discourses that shape the psychotherapies
Normality, abnormality, diversity and difference within counselling and art therapy research and professional literature. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation ongoing 10 N Individual Y  Reflection 1500 words 45 N Individual Y  Discourse Analysis 1500 words 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Shiri Hergass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)