Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2016 Experimental Writing and Electronic Publication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100584 Coordinator Anna Gibbs Opens in new window Description Experimental Writing and Electronic Publication is a practical and experiential exploration of modernist writing practices.Students will be introduced to a range of innovative writing techniques designed to stimulate creative thinking and assist in the development of a regular writing practice. Areas of study include: exploration of pre-writing processes; experimental writing genres; power of language; evaluative process; and the development of individual and collaborative techniques for planning and executing writing projects. A primary component of this subject includes working on writing exercises both at home and in class. These exercises will be used to develop the end-of-unit major project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline the history of modernist experimental writing and its relevance to contemporary writing practices
Analyse some key texts in the history of experimental writing practices
Employ strategies and techniques for overcoming 'writer's block'
Develop a major writing project based on class exercises
Display skills in writing and editing Subject Content Writing, games and play
Writing as process
Writing from dreams
Collage techniques
Writing structures
Experimenting with genre and form: history, poetry, auto/biography and hybrid genres
DIY publication
Digital writing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Work in progress 2,000 words 30 N Individual   Major project a) Creative work (30%)  b) Critical Reflection (15%)
 a) 2,000 words  b) 1,500 words 45 N Individual   Class presentation  25 N Individual Summer The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Work in progress  1,000 words 40 N Individual   Major project 2,000 words 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)