Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7016 Interpreting Skills (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102015 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description This is a pool subject in some postgraduate interpreting and translation courses. The subject is aimed at developing essential skills in interpreting and deals with the specialised technical skills necessary for the different modes of interpreting: dialogue, consecutive, simultaneous, and sight translation. Given the large amount of independent practice needed to develop competence in interpreting, it pays special attention to the teaching of techniques for autonomous learning. Lectures are held in English for students of all the languages available. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin or Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate understanding of interpreting theories and their relevance to research and practice;
apply knowledge about different speech styles, registers and social dialects to accurately render different discourses in the target language;
demonstrate an understanding of context-specific interpreting techniques used in dialogue, consecutive, simultaneous interpreting and sight translation;
apply listening skills and techniques in a variety of settings such as business, immigration, tourism and motor transport, and develop techniques for autonomous learning of these skills;
use the memory skills required for dialogue interpreting and consecutive interpreting;
use note taking skills effectively to interpret accurately in the long consecutive interpreting mode,
demonstrate effective public speaking skills, including techniques for autonomous learning of these skills. Subject Content . Variables of spoken language; content, speed, text type, number of interlocutors, accent, speaker's gender; techniques for improving listening comprehension.
. Cognitive processes behind interpreting
. Different speech styles, registers and social dialects and interpreting exercises to develop the skill to accurately render such variables in the Target Language.
. Characteristics of dialogue, consecutive, simultaneous interpreting and sight translation; participants and their roles; typical contexts and content and role implications for each mode; differing cognitive demands of each mode.
. Memory and interpreting: exercises and techniques for developing short-term memory
. Standard systems for note taking; individual adaptation; techniques for note taking practice
. Public speaking skills; voice work, audience contact, discourse organisation; techniques for autonomous development of public speaking skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 3000 words 30 N Individual Y  Practical Continuous assessment of interpreting skills development in class through practical tutorial exercises. 40 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 30 mins per student 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting (1775) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting Studies (exit only) (1778) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777)