Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 1009 Exploring the Creative Industries (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description Careers in the Creative Industries are on the rise. They're innovation-led, mobile, global and adaptable. In the short-term success can be a matter of luck but a long-term career requires tactics, talent, and savvy business acumen. In this hands-on subject we'll introduce you to some of the key opportunities in the Creative Industries in fields as diverse as Communication, Media, Music, Design, Writing and associated aspects of Intellectual Property Law and Entrepreneurship. We'll look at the Creative Industries from historical and contemporary perspectives and hear from industry contributors working in the field right now. You'll be introduced to 'future of work' skillsets, including entrepreneurship, leadership, collaboration, and communication capabilities, and you'll learn how to situate your own creative knowledge within them. Available to students from all disciplines, this subject will suit you if you're passionate about taking your creative career to the next level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Define the Creative Industries using national and international examples.
Identify fields of study within the Creative Industries.
Apply research skills to investigate and communicate the career trajectory of a Creative Industries professional.
Demonstrate an ability to communicate the relationship between the various professions (such as Advertising, Journalism, Public Relations, and Screen Media) in the creative industries
Identify current ethical creative industries work practices and what the future of the industry might look like. Subject Content Creative Industries: An Introduction Industry Talks: Putting Creativity to Work The Big 4: The Production and Circulation of Creative Products Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview 300 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 800 words 35 N Individual N  Portfolio 500 words 30 N Individual N  Poster 5 minutes ( including q+a) 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Creative Arts (CART)