Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3020 Professional Experience 2: Working with Assessment Data for Instruction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102648 Coordinator Kellie Jorda Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on student data and assessment in relation to Pre-service Teachers’ curriculum specialisation. Students will develop the capacity to interpret student assessment data to inform their teaching as well as develop knowledge of formal and informal assessment strategies. The subject has a three-week (15 day) placement component, which provides opportunities to examine and interpret student data to inform planning and teaching. It also has one day on campus. Students will employ formal and informal assessment strategies to support student learning and inform teaching. Students are required to analyse their own learning in relation to the Graduate Teacher Standards as a review of the progress of their Learning Portfolio is undertaken in this subject. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 2048 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education and have successfully completed 160 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret student English/Literacy or Mathematics/Numeracy data.
Explain how English/Literacy or Mathematics/Numeracy assessment data has been applied to their planning and teaching practice.
Apply assessment strategies, including informal and formal, diagnostic, formative and summative approaches to monitor and assess student learning.
Use informal and formal assessment strategies of student learning to inform teaching.
Interact ethically and professionally with staff, students and the broader school community.
Reflect on own learning, teaching and feedback from school-based and university-based teacher educators in relation to the Australian Professional Standards for Graduate Teachers. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
      i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
      ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
      iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to:
      i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
      ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
      iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
      iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
      v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to:
      i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
      ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
      iii.  Save certificate of completion
      iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to:
      i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
      ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
      iii.  Save certificate of completion
      iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Primary). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 800 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 15 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 15 days S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio Update of portfolio begun in subject TEAC 2004 Being a Teacher S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)