Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 4007 Practice skills for social work Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102351 Coordinator George Turner Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop students' knowledge and skill base to work with people in varied environments and during difficult life transitions. The focus will be on acquiring knowledge of practice theory and models and then making use of this knowledge in simulated practice including interviewing and through written critical reflection.  The subject emphasises use of self, emotion work and skills in negotiating preferred goals and outcomes with clients. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 3020 OR
WELF 2005 Equivalent Subjects WELF 4003 - Critical Social Work Practice Direct Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1666 - Bachelor of Social Work or 1713 - Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply a contemporary social work practice model to a simulated practice situation
Evaluate a brief intervention model, demonstrating critical reflection skills and describing the theory that informs the model.
Identify relevant social work practice knowledge and skills in contemporary scholarship, in working with clients in varied environments and during difficult life transitions. Subject Content 1. Contemporary social work practice principles, theories, models and approaches
2. Brief Intervention skills demonstration using self-reflection and feedback
3. Social Work knowledge and skills in working in varied environments and during difficult life transitions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview Up to 20 min 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words 45 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 10 quizzes of 5 questions each  15 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact George Turner Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact George Turner Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)