Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 2003 Plant Production Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301447 Coordinator Jay Bose Opens in new window Description This subject will provide you with an understanding of the scientific basis of sustainable plant production in natural and built environments. These include cropping of plants for food production in extensive and intensive systems. In this subject you will gain an understanding of the physiological controls on plant yield in the Australian environment. You will become familiar with the science and practice of sustainable plant production and develop crop management skills through the production of nursery crops, vegetables and fruits. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of plants. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the science and practices in plant production and the cause & effect behind these practices.
Demonstrate competence in a range of basic techniques used in crop production.
Examine the basic principles of production management of selected crops.
Analyse the principle components regulating plant production.
Predict the effects of environment modification on crop yield & quality. Subject Content 1. Sustainable plant production practices for food processing and analysis.
2. Growing environments, system modelling and analysis for Australian conditions.
3. Plant propagation and seed (collection, viability, storage, germination) production.
4. Intensive plant production.
5. Broad-acre field & agricultural crop production. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Practical 3x 1000 words 30 N Group N  Final Exam 2hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Jay Bose Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT)