Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1037 Health Administration and Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401388 Coordinator Richard Thomas Opens in new window Description The health workplace is a complex and sophisticated environment that can be understood in many different ways and mean different things to different members of an organisation. Assumptions about organisational structure and action are based on conceptualisations and beliefs about the nature and goals of an organisation. This subject aims to develop an introductory understanding of health administration and management practice and business skills required in an evolving health landscape in concordance with the international competency framework for health administrators and managers. School Health Sciences Discipline Public and Health Care Administration Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Incompatible Subjects BUSM 2020 - Health Services Management Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the fundamentals of organising, organisational design and culture in health care services;
Describe monitoring and control mechanisms for human and capital resources, risk management and safety;
Distinguish and use the fundamentals of leading and group dynamics in health care;
Apply management decision making practices used to ensure quality outcomes for both patients and staff in health services;
Analyse the strategic planning, strategic management, performance management and decision-making processes in the health care system. Subject Content 1. Introduction to the profession of health administration and management
2. Introduction to the health and healthcare management environment
3. Introduction to business management skills (financial and resource management, human resource management, information management, organisational governance, planning and marketing, risk management and clinical governance, quality and safety, project and supply chain management)
4. Introduction to healthcare leadership Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,000 words
 35 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 Hours 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Richard Thomas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Richard Thomas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Business and Management (BUSM) Clinical Sciences, Testamur Major (T109) Health Management Studies, Major (0278) Health Practice Management, Minor (0240) Health Services Management, Major (0053) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019)