Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 0002 Academic Skills for Health Science (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900099 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to become successful independent learners.  It introduces students to a range of theories and concepts to facilitate the development of practical skills and personal attitudes necessary for success in tertiary study.  Emphasis is placed on developing the key competencies such as time management, critical thinking, researching, notetaking and referencing. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 0001 - Academic Skills for Health Science (UWSCFS) Restrictions This subject is only available to College students enrolled in the Undergraduate Preparation Programs. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a foundational understanding of essential academic skills, including effective notetaking, summarising, quoting, paraphrasing and APA referencing for health sciences.
Identify strategies for successful learning and time management, including reflection, task prioritisation and allocation of study time to meet deadlines.
Develop critical thinking, reading, and writing skills.
Develop proficiency in conducting academic research, navigating scholarly databases, understanding various types of journal articles, and synthesising information to engage with evidenced based practice in health. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project A) 1x 150 words (10%)
B) 1x quiz (10%)
C) 21x 200 words (10%)
D) 1x 200 words (10%)
E) 1x quiz (10%) 50 N Individual N  Critical Review 1000 words 25 N Individual N  Presentation 5 mins 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Charlise Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Charlise Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Undergraduate Preparation Program – Nursing/Health Science (9031) University Foundation Studies Standard - 2 Terms (WSTC) (9019)