Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 3039 Ecology Credit Points 10 Coordinator Uffe Nielsen Opens in new window Description Humans have long been fascinated by Earth’s astounding diversity of species and ecosystems. Ecology is the science that study the distribution of these species, the controls on population dynamics, and what structures communities and ecosystems. The resulting knowledge is critical to inform land management and policy decision-making to conserve biodiversity, sustainably manage ecosystems, while supporting a growing human population through provision of ecosystem services including food production and adaptation to climate change. In this subject, you will learn current ecological theory from the scale of individual organisms, through populations, to communities and ecosystems; how to conduct ecological research; and, how to apply ecological knowledge to solve real world problems. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS2007
EY210A
EY201A
BIOS2008 Restrictions Must have successfully completed 100 credit points Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Define and apply key ecological concepts relevant at the scale of populations, species, communities, and ecosystems. 
Critically analyse how ecological knowledge is gained and how it can be applied.
Contextualise knowledge gaps and design robust research programs to address these. 
Communicate ecological knowledge verbally and in writing using scientific literature to support key statements. 
Work effectively and responsibly in a team. Subject Content Describe ecology as a science, how ecological knowledge is gained, and how ecological knowledge, including Indigenous understanding, and theory informs management and policy decision-making.
Historical and contemporary drivers of the distribution of species.
Population biology and population dynamics, particularly in reference to managing threatened species.
The role of biotic interactions, with a focus on herbivory, predation, competition, and beneficial associations.
Community ecology, particularly how communities change through time and space.
Ecosystem ecology, with a focus on primary productivity, biogeochemical cycling and sustainable land use in the face of global change.
Approaches to, and consequences of, traditional and current management, including Indigenous land use, on species and ecosystems. Special Requirements Essential equipment Covered footwear for practicals in laboratory and field excursions; safety goggles and lab coat for practicals in laboratory Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 x 30 min quizzes 20 N Individual N  Report Up to 3,000 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Group/Individual N  Essay Up to 3,000 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Uffe Nielsen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)