Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1006 Chinese 102 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100057 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This is a post-beginner level subject in (Mandarin) Chinese intended for those with knowledge of Chinese 101 or equivalent.  This subject builds on the knowledge and skills developed in (Mandarin) Chinese 101 and aims to further develop listening, speaking, reading and writing skills in elementary Modern Standard Chinese.  The subject includes a socio-cultural component which will examine some aspects of China and Chinese culture as well as the Chinese community in Australia.  Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Course Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Assumed Knowledge 100056 Chinese 101 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes demonstrate beginning level language skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing in Modern Standard Chinese;
show mastery of the Pinyin Romanisation system;
deomstrate a core vocabulary, fundamental grammatical structures and text types to meet basic communicative needs.
interact in Modern Standard Chinese at post-beginner level in a range of communicative situations;
show greater knowledge of Chinese language, culture and way of thinking, and the Chinese-speaking community in Australia. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Listening task (1 dialogue and/or 1 consecutive text), Oral presentation (5-10 minutes) 30 N Individual Y  Interview 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Critical Review 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Language and Literature (LANG)