Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7030 Preparation for NAATI Certification (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102562 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description This is a compulsory subject in the Master of Interpreting and Translation, Master of Translation and TESOL, Graduate Diploma in Translation and Graduate Diploma in Interpreting courses. It aims to provide practice and constructive feedback to students preparing to sit the external NAATI certification examinations. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LANG 7017 Equivalent Subjects LANG 7001 - Accreditation Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1777 Master of Interpreting and Translation, 1776 Graduate Diploma in Translation, 1775 Graduate Diploma in Interpreting or 1816 Master of Translation and TESOL. Students in the following programs must have successfully completed 40 credit points: 1816 Master of Translation and TESOL, 1775 Graduate Diploma in Interpreting, 1776 Graduate Diploma in Translation. Students in program 1777 Master of Interpreting and Translation must have successfully completed 120 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and one other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the format, standards and requirement of NAATI certification examinations.
Apply the translation and/or interpreting techniques necessary to sit the certification examinations.
Produce accurate and idiomatic translations and/or interpreting.
Critique interpreting and translation quality through implementing principles of translation/interpreting quality assessment. Subject Content Dialogue, consecutive and simultaneous interpreting in simulated settings such as medical consultations, public meetings, courtrooms.
Simulated dialogue interpreting over the telephone.
Sight translation of written texts (190-210 words in length).
Translation to and from English of 250-word passages in a variety of formal genres under timed conditions.
Revise translations. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam 3.5 hours, 3.5 hours, 1.5 hours 100 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Interpreting (1775) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting Studies (exit only) (1778) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)