Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7061 Professional Focus: Age-Friendly Future Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401420 Coordinator Rachel Gregory-Wilson Opens in new window Description Accepting and embracing the ageing population as assets and not a burden is important towards enabling older people to continue living in security and to fully participate in society. For this to occur, the future of work, design and social spaces need to be responsive to the needs of ageing populations. This subject offers students with the opportunity to assess and reflect on the domains of age-friendliness in alignment with World Health Organisation (WHO) Age-friendly framework relevant to their interest, or their work practice settings.  The WHO age-friendly domains, inputs from older people, carers of older people and service providers, are elements to be considered in this proposed quality improvement project. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points and students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically reflect on, evaluate and synthesise principal elements of project management.
Create a critical, coherent and succinct argument that justifies the need for the proposed quality improvement project related to age-friendliness.
Design a quality improvement project utilising the age-friendly domains focussing on issues influencing heath, wellbeing of older people as well as the enablers for sustainable environments.
Develop a representational work articulating the domains of age-friendliness observed in the communities.
Develop a written proposal of acceptable and professional standard. Subject Content Promoting Age-friendly Futures
WHO Age-friendly framework
Domains of Age-friendliness
Assessment (Based on City of Melville Toolkit)
Creating a Community Profile
Consultation (Older People, Carers of Older People and Service Providers)
Age-friendly initiatives in Australia
Writing a Quality Improvement Project Proposal Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 word equivalent 20 N Individual   Proposal 3,000  words 50 N Individual   Poster or Infographic 1,00 0 word equivalent 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Nursing (NURS)