Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7007 Corporate Asset and Property Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201015 Coordinator Kamel Taoum Opens in new window Description The subject focuses on the role and functions of corporate asset management as a strategic goal of a corporation. Students examine business structure and how corporate asset management fits into an organisation, and assess the operation of commercial property management and the various roles, duties, obligations and legal liabilities of a Commercial Property Manager. Various legislative and statutory provisions are explored, as well as the inter-relationship of commercial property management with the professional disciplines of asset management, investment management, portfolio management and other sectors of the property industry. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse corporate asset management and its role in strategic planning;
Analyse the functions and practices of the corporate asset management unit;
Apply methods of increasing shareholder value through astute corporate asset management practices;
Examine the various legislative provisions, legal obligations and professional liability issues affecting commercial property management;
Analyse the professional relationships and synergies which occur between commercial property management and property investment, property development, marketing, leasing, research, valuation, portfolio asset and facilities management teams. Subject Content 1. Corporate asset management, functions and practices in strategic planning
2. Acquisition, disposal, funding, leasing, and valuing corporate real estate holdings
3. Performance indicators and methods of measurement of corporate asset management
4. Value management processes of the corporate asset management unit
5. Commercial property management process
6. Property law
7. Roles, duties and responsibilities of a commercial property manager
8. Managing agency agreements and agency proposals to prospective clients
9. Commercial leases, income considerations, tenant considerations
10. Budgeting, monitoring, life cycle costing, financial and investment analysis
11. Ecologically Sustainable Development (ESD) policies and Australian legislation, and the implications of ESD for commercial property management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,800 words  50 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,800 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kamel Taoum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Kamel Taoum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Property Investment (2814) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)