Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 1002 PC Workshop Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300150 Coordinator Miroslav Filipovic Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the hardware and software components of a stand-alone personal computer (PC).  Students become familiar with the CPU, memory, secondary storage, IO peripherals and communications devices commonly found in a PC.  They learn to assemble and disassemble a PC and to install hardware and software components according to supplier specifications.  Students also learn to use and customise the PC operating system to maintain and optimise PC performance. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of personal computers. Learning Outcomes Identify, locate, distinguish, and describe the individual hardware components of a PC and explain their purpose, functions and operations.
Explain and discuss the interaction between computer hardware components and devices and systems software.
List, explain and effectively use the major functions of a PC operating system to manage processes, programs, files, and devices.
Determine user requirements for new hardware components, devices and peripherals.
Explain technical specifications for PC hardware components, devices and peripherals and discuss these with suppliers and vendors.
Install PC components, devices and peripherals in accordance with installation procedures and operational standards with minimum disruption to clients.
Measure PC system performance and efficiency and tune and optimise components to meet operational requirements.
Use and extend the functionality of the PC operating system to monitor and manage the effective and secure operation of the PC and its devices. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Completion of laboratory tasks. Eight labs (practicals), three hours each. 20 N Individual   Two Progressive mid-semester tests 2 hours each 30 N Individual   One home assignment – Report & Case Study One week to investigate and complete 10 N Individual   Final Practical Demonstration Two hours lab session 40 Y Individual Structures that include subject IT Support, Minor (0205) Other information Technology (INFO)