Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7082 Legal and Ethical Requirements to Support Decision Making in Health Care Credit Points 10 Coordinator Leanne Hunt Opens in new window Description Ongoing advances in technology and demands on health care resources mean that health care professionals are required to participate in decisions of legal, ethical, and professional significance. This subject will provide a comprehensive overview about potential legal, ethical, and professional issues that need to be considered in clinical practice. International and Australian legislation, case law and examples of ethical and moral reasoning will be used to provide a framework to support clinical decision-making. The subject design enables students to think critically and support learning using ethical and legal frameworks to provide a real and relevant connection to impact upon clinical practice. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Assumed Knowledge Fundamental knowledge of relevant healthcare professional standards. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Apply knowledge of relevant international and domestic legislation, guidelines, and policies to issues in clinical practice and research.
2. Critically analyse and differentiate between legal, ethical, and professional issues in healthcare practice. 
3. Formulate evidence-based strategies in managing ethical dilemmas in the provision of health care in Australia. 
4. Analyse the legal and ethical issues surrounding social media and the public image of the health care professional. 
5. Implement strategies to resolve legal and professional issues arising in research and clinical practice. Subject Content • Law and Ethics 
• Professional Standards
• Decision making in health care Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 600 words 10 N Group/Individual N  Critical Review 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Leanne Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Leanne Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Acute and Critical Care Nursing (4749) Nursing (NURS)