Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7023 Property Investment and Risk Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201010 Coordinator Peter Hunt Opens in new window Description This subject discusses investment and risk management in the contemporary property context (both local and international). It explores the unique features of income-producing property and examines the performance of such properties, through the application of a variety of investment techniques. The significance of green property investment is also highlighted. Students will perform risk analysis techniques for income-producing properties and portfolios. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects FINC 7017 - Property Investment Analysis LGYB 6499 - Property Investment Analysis (V2) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply property investment analysis in assessing property assets for investment purposes;
Critically evaluate the profitability and risk of an income-producing property;
Critically evaluate the impact of key factors, such as green building features on the return and risk associated with investment properties;
Propose an after-tax cash flow analysis for an income-producing property. Subject Content 1. Property investment process and concepts from local and international perspectives
2. Green and environmentally friendly property investment
3. Traditional valuation versus property investment analysis
4. Ratio analysis
5. Discounted cash flow (DCF) and investment analysis
6. DCF-profitability analysis
7. Financial leverage and DCF
8. Risk analysis
9. Risk management of international property
10. Taxation and property investment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words  40 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Peter Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Property Investment (2814) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)