Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2001 Automated Manufacturing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300735 Coordinator Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window Description Automated manufacturing is about increasing the capacity of productivity through a range of integrated technologies, such as  digital transformation platforms so that manufacturing operations can run simultaneously. These processes are used in industrial settings. Students will be introduced to the fundamentals of manufacturing operations, automation, and control technologies, including numerical control and industrial robotics. This subject aims to deepen the understanding of the material selection process and enables students to identify appropriate manufacturing processes in a product manufacturing design. Various manufacturing processes such as material removal, bulk deformation, sheet-metal forming, and non-traditional processes will be examined. Through problem-solving activities, students will enhance their manufacturing engineering skills in the computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) areas and acquire the skills to machine their CAD models on a computer numerical control (CNC) machine. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Manufacturing Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students must have passed the two subjects MATH 1016 Mathematics for Engineers 1 and ENGR 1018 Fundamentals of Mechanics OR must have passed the two subjects MATH 1034 Mathematics for Engineers 1 (Advanced) and ENGR 1018 Fundamentals of Mechanics before they can enroll in this subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 3002 - Automated Manufacturing Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of manufacturing processes and automation control technologies to solve problems and design components.
Use CAD software to create and modify components designs and CAM software to generate code files for manufacturing those components.
Use suitable problem-solving techniques for problems and contexts in manufacturing design.
Discuss the advantages of computer integrated manufacturing, flexible manufacturing processes and their applications in the manufacturing industries.
Apply mathematical techniques in a manufacturing engineering problem.
Conduct work safely and responsibly in the manufacturing lab. Subject Content Material properties and product attributes
Engineering materials
Solidification processes
Particulate processing of metals and ceramics
Metal forming and sheet metalworking
Material removal processes
Property enhancing and surface processing operations
Joining and assembly processes
Manufacturing systems
Manufacturing support systems
Manual and CNC machining processes and tools
CAD/CAM technologies, applications and programming
Cost estimation in manufacturing
Flexible and fixed automation
Applications of robotics in automated manufacturing
Computer-integrated manufacturing & processing planning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 3 x assignments 30 N Individual N  Practical 3 x practicals 30 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 10 N Individual Y  Report 6000 words  and 15 minutes 30 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)