Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2046 Pedagogy and Praxis in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102643 Coordinator Michelle Locke Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to meet the needs of early childhood, primary and secondary teachers who are required to develop their pedagogical approaches in order to become culturally responsive educators that meet the specific needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners. Preservice teachers examine current research which supports the teaching of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners their particular educational settings. Through their development as teacher professionals the subject will provide opportunities for future teacher professionals to demonstrate their application of these pedagogical approaches and explain how this shapes their future classroom practice. This subject provides foundational experiences to engage with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander history, culture and education educational experiences in NSW. It provides opportunities for preservice teachers to explore praxis which is underpinned by research. The subject requires educators to apply appropriate application of cultural protocols which enables future teachers to successfully work with Aboriginal children, families and communities in ways that maximise learning outcomes for Aboriginal learners in a range of educational settings. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary), 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an introductory understanding of Indigenous Australian knowledges, histories and cultures, including an understanding of the diversity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultural expressions, cultural values and worldviews.
Explain how to action appropriate community consultation, cultural protocols, ethical interactions and ways with Elders, families and caregivers, knowledge holders, Aboriginal workers and external cultural experts.
Examine the relationship between educational theory, practice and worldviews in relation to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander pedagogy and how it is applied in educational settings.
Design pedagogically appropriate Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander teaching and learning opportunities or activities for future classrooms.
Develop positive culturally responsive pedagogies that develop strong identity and cultural expressions in your future praxis with Aboriginal children entering western education sites of learning. Subject Content The importance of ‘play’, ‘hands on’ Land Based Education (LBE) tasks to engage Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learning.
Assessing resources for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students for suitability in the classroom.
Aboriginal workers in the classroom as a resource.
Engaging Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students.
Pedagogical frameworks for teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students.
The importance of building relationships when working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students.
Protocols of working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parents, families, carers and communities.
Learning from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parents and students.
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander concepts of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15-20 minutes (300 words description) 15 N Group Y  Report 1500 words 45 N Individual Y  Essay 1200 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Michelle Locke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Associate Degree in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1940) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Diploma in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1878) Teacher Education (TEAC)