Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4017 Podiatric Paediatrics and Sports Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401115 Coordinator Viv Chuter Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to clinical and theoretical foundations of biomechanical alignment, trauma, psychological and behavioural factors leading to pain and restricted function of the foot and lower extremity affecting daily living activities. Particular focus will be placed on the mechanics, diagnosis and treatment options of problems experienced in paediatrics and sports in normal daily activities or the sporting arena. This integration will enhance the previously taught assessment and diagnostic techniques in the development of appropriate management and treatment programs of the lower extremity in different populations. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3028 AND
REHA 3029 AND
REHA 2005 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4018 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7024 - Podiatric Techniques 3A REHA 7025 - Podiatric Techniques 3B Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4708 - Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 470 - Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Assumed Knowledge Completion of all core subjects to this semester/ year of study. Learning Outcomes Discuss and anaylse current theories and processes of normal growth from birth to adulthood.
Use appropriate knowledge of diseases, musculosketetal injury with skills to accurately examine (physical, historical and psychosocial) the child and the sports patient.
Quantify paediatric and sports assessments using pathology/ injury screening tools
Explore legal, ethical and resourcing issues in the practice of podiatric medicine in the areas of policy development, appropriate assessment techniques and treatment prgrams provided to the child (management of condition, child protection and care); sporting patients (professional or social environments).
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge of biomechanics and its role in sporting activities and exercise science and understand approaches to determine the aetiology, pathology, clinical presentation in the diagnoses of common injury to the lower extremity.
Distinguish between normal age related changes and pathological conditions (physical and psychological) that may occur in paediatric and sports cohorts.
Recognise and review age related gait changes and differentiate these from gait changes associated with systemic or orthopaedic disturbances.
Examine the role of the podiatrist in a multidisciplinary health care team which includes the paediatric and sports patient (hospital and community settings).
Apply the theory of measuring health outcomes, pain and pain management in a clinical setting and identify, assess and implement a treatment plan for soft tissue, osseous and synovial conditions.
Demonstrate and evaluate the role of physical therapies, particularly musculoskeletal retraining, neural and orthoses intervention in the ongoing patient management and rehabilitation process. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement. Students must also hold a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation. Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 40 minutes 50 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 90 minutes 50 N Individual N  Professional Task Attendance and participation at all face to face practical sessions S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Viv Chuter Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)