Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2014 Health Variations 2 Advanced - Chronic Illness and Disability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401215 Coordinator Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window Description This subject encourages critical analysis to explore the concepts of chronicity, disability, habilitation and rehabilitation in relation to chronic conditions, functional and intellectual disabilities and their implications for nursing practice. National Health Priority Case Studies drawn from across the lifespan will provide a focus for exploring pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions and nursing care related to chronic conditions of the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems. In addition, a problem-solving nursing approach will be developed for supporting those with physical and intellectual disability. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 2012 Health Variations 2 (Advanced) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes Examine the causes, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations and diagnostic procedures for common chronic illnesses related to the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems.
Appraise safe, appropriate and responsive quality nursing practices related to the administration of pharmacological interventions for chronic conditions affecting the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems.
Explain evidence-based rationales and problem-solve nursing strategies used to manage chronic illness.
Critically discuss the impact of chronic illness on the individual, family, caregivers and health care system.
Critique the principles of habilitation, rehabilitation, chronicity and disability and implications for nursing practice.
Access and evaluate data relevant to provision of effective nursing management of people across the lifespan who are experiencing chronic illness or disability.
Understand the principles and practices of Primary Health Care in their application to the provision of health care of people experiencing chronic illness and/or disability. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,500 words
 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)