Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7073 Nursing Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401460 Coordinator Joan Lynch Opens in new window Description Nursing Practice 1 focuses on the development of the role and skills of the registered nurse when assessing and providing care for people across the lifespan who are experiencing acute, but usually resolvable conditions. A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and simulated skills assessment and a professional experience placement will support clinical skill development. The subject includes 160 hours of Professional Experience Placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 3040 Foundations of Nursing Practice
NURS 7077 Pharmacology Knowledge for Nursing Practice
NURS 7071 Introduction to Alterations in Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Well development basic nursing skills and knowledge related to safe medication administration. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Justify the principles of safe medication administration in clinical scenarios and their application in simulated and clinical learning environments. 
Exhibit competence in maintaining accurate, comprehensive, and timely documentation of assessments and nursing care plans
Communicate effectively within interprofessional teams in a clinical scenario.
Investigate evidence to support a range of assessment techniques to systematically collect relevant and accurate information to develop knowledge and integrate care
Competently perform safe medication administration, with a focus of non-parenteral and parenteral medications, and the application for people who are experiencing acute but usually resolvable conditions in a simulated and clinical learning environment. 6. Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant     standards  or requirements in nursing. Subject Content Principles of nursing frameworks
The experience of pain and pain management during the perioperative period
Assessment, admission procedures and the Nursing History
Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, for safe, quality practice
Recognising and Responding to Variations in Health Status Bowel Cancer, Fractures, Crohn’s disease
Ulcerative colitis, Breast cancer
Perioperative and post-operative care
Fluid Balance & Fluid replacement
Numeracy – medication calculations
Working in multi-disciplinary teams
Health informatics and health technology – electronic charting
Application of legal-ethical principles
Family focused care
Clinical Practicum Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Western Course Requirements
Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your course. Special Requirements
Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements
To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your course, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet.
Please ensure that you
1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one
2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history
3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements
4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff.
International students have additional requirements: the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements
Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as
If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements
If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements.
NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire course.
Current approved first aid certificate valid for your entire course - approved course providers can be found at the Government Training website
http://training.gov.au Other non-health related requirements.
Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW Students only)
https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Essential equipment Students must wear the School of Nursing and Midwifery clinical uniform, including correct fully enclosed ALL black shoes [that meet WHS requirements - Shoes must be low heeled, fully enclosed, non-slip soles (Reeboks, joggers, sandshoes, sneakers, gym shoes, sandals, slippers, ballet shoes, etc. are NOT acceptable)] to all CPU classes and the clinical placement. The uniform can be purchased from the retail store on campus.
Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 160 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Joan Lynch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Joan Lynch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)