Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2027 News Reporting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102062 Coordinator Margot Dunphy Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to news gathering, research, story construction and news writing for delivery over a variety of platforms, from print-based to online, broadcast and social media. It gives students foundation skills which they can then apply in the subsequent electronic and feature subjects. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Journalism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 1018 Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0129 - Online Journalism COMM 2028 - News Reporting for Convergent Media Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Find and select appropriate issues and events for production as news stories for multi-platform delivery.
Select interviewees and conduct interviews.
Explain how to value add to stories with additional story elements
Explain how different delivery platforms, including social media, use different news gathering and production techniques.
Critically assess ethical and other issues in print and online-delivered journalism.
Explain the changes taking place in news media as a result of media convergence.
Apply general knowledge and knowledge of current events appropriate for conduct of basic journalistic tasks
Adequately assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Developing a news sense and gathering information for news.
Journalistic interviewing and research.
Presenting news in various formats with a focus on developing news writing style.
Creating social media platforms, including blogs and website to host news stories. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2 x news stories (300 words each) and mission statement (150 words) 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 600 words - News story and report on the issue 
 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 2 x news stories (500 words each) & revised Stage 1 stories 

 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Journalism, Major (0069) Journalism, Minor (0069) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)