Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4019 Podiatric Practice 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401118 Coordinator Sean Sadler Opens in new window Description This subject is the final of four clinical podiatric practice subjects. The subject builds on student clinical reasoning encouraging the student to make the appropriate selection of assessment techniques to diagnose and manage a spectrum of foot and lower limb pathology. Students under supervision will consolidate skills managing diverse patient cohorts and complex cases (including surgery, paediatrics, sports injury and the high risk foot) transitioning towards a competent graduate entry podiatrist. Clinical activities include UniClinic sessions, Clinical Therapies, Clinical tutorials, and Specialist Clinical Activity. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 4018
REHA 4007
REHA 4017 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4016 OR
REHA 4036 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7022 Restrictions The subject is Podiatry specific and restricted to students enrolled in 4708 - Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 4709 - Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Assumed Knowledge All core subjects to this semester of study are assumed knowledge to facilitate competent clinical practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply culturally responsive communication strategies that support inclusive engagement, person-centred therapeutic relationships, and patient self-determination in the delivery of complex care.
Apply skills and capabilities necessary in the culturally responsive management of general and complex foot pathologies (including nail surgery) across different clinical settings.
Critique and reflect on skills, knowledge and contextual information in the assessment, diagnosis and management of a diverse range of podiatric conditions.
Demonstrate knowledge of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples’ key concepts of health and wellbeing and the influence of culture, kinship, and connection to Country and how these relate to podiatry practice.
Critically appraise relevant literature to develop evidence base management plans for a range of complex podiatric conditions. Subject Content This is the final clinical subject in the program and will focus on the consolidiation of appropriate assessment, diagnostic and management skills of general and complex podiatric cases and the delivery of culturally responsive and safe clinical care.  The emphasis will continue to be on surgery, high risk patients, patients with multiple co-morbidities, patients from priority populations including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. Theoretical content will include Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples’ key concepts of health and wellbeing and the influence of culture, kinship, and connection to Country and how these relate to podiatry practice. Clinical placements with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health services will be undertaken where possible. This subject will include completion of Uni Clinic and Outreach Clinics (up to 105 hrs) and online modules (16 hours). 1.  UniClinic
In these clinics, the student will continue development of patient management skills and efficiency attending to ongoing patients of the clinic who have basic foot problems or problems associated with an existing medical condition.  Clinics will continue to consolidate all relevant theories taught to assist in the assessment, diagnose and management of patients who attend the clinic with medical, mechanical, functional and surgical problems.  As such, it is expected to enhance the student’s clinical decision making in the selection of appropriate assessment techniques, additional investigations, rehabilitation, footwear assessment and orthotic and adjunct therapies in general and diverse populations. Complex cases will be a priority to consolidate problem solving, assessment and clinical decision-making skills in difficult cases. 2. Online modules
This subject will continue to build on previous clinical and academic knowledge. Online teaching modules (up to 16 hours) will improve and consolidate specialist diagnostic, screening, prescription and rehabilitation skills. Outreach clinics
The student will actively participate in outreach clinics. The activity will be directed at consolidating clinical assessment, deductive reasoning and culturally responsive communication skills and skills in person-centred culturally safe management of podiatric conditions.  The aim of these activities is to increase efficiency and competency in podiatry care and allow students to demonstrate their ability to adapt to variable real-world clinical environments. Of particular importance will be student involvement in a multi-disciplinary approach to patient care. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 120 minutes 50 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Portfolio End of teaching period 20 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance Completion of up to 105 hrs of clinical placement S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sean Sadler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)