Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7029 Quality and Safety Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401371 Coordinator Maria Agaliotis Opens in new window Description This subject provides an overview of emerging health policy with particular attention to quality and safety. Students develop a critical view on the organisation of healthcare, measurement and delivery of outcomes from the patient and population perspective as well as organisational accountability for quality and safety. The course consists of three components. The first component targets the main constituents of clinical governance, including practice design, analysis and improvement, error reporting and investigation, public accountability and open disclosure, multi-disciplinary teamwork and clinical leadership. The second component introduces the tools of clinical process redesign which help managers make practical improvements to practices in their subjects. The third component targets risk management by providing an overview of the kinds of risks faced by health service managers by outlining perceptions of risk such as adverse effect versus opportunity capital. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects HLTH 7012 - Organisational Governance and Performance Management Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse health reforms to apply to strategic and operational planning and implementation
Critique efforts to improve health systems, in Australia and beyond
Design strategies to avert risk and manage adversity
Integrate good governance into practice within a health service industry
Analyse the role of leadership, professional communication and interpersonal skills as they relate to quality and safety
Translate evidence and best practice into organisational and clinical governance to improve outcomes Subject Content 1. Organisational governance
2. Quality and safety in the Australian and global context
3. Quality Improvement frameworks
4. Quality failings
5. Quality indicators, measurement and reporting
6. Quality management
7. Training and education for quality and safety
8. Risks and complaints management
9. Patient and public involvement in improving quality and safety in healthcare
10. Evaluating quality care through audit Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 800 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Maria Agaliotis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Maria Agaliotis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maria Agaliotis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management (4777) Graduate Diploma in Occupational Health and Safety (4779) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Health (HLTH) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)