Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7010 Assessing to Support Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102147 Coordinator Michelle Button Opens in new window Description Professionals' knowledge and skill in assessment supports the identification, planning, monitoring and evaluation of their work with individuals with additional needs. Assessment not only applies to assessing the needs of the individual, but extends to identifying the needs of the family and the educational setting. This subject explores various models of assessment (and their underlying theory and implications for practice). Various approaches are investigated that are utilised to elucidate a range of educational needs across the lifespan by a range of professionals (e.g. functional, standardised, diagnostic, strengths-based, curriculum-based). Students apply problem-based learning by selecting and critiquing assessment strategies to inform the goals, educational instruction and adjustments, and progress for an individual, their family and educational setting.  Students also develop skills in communicating with colleagues and families regarding issues around assessment. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Special Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1682 Master of Special Education; 1720 Master of Inclusive Education; 1721 Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education or 1911 Master of Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply an understanding of the role that assessment plays in the learning and teaching cycle.
Evaluate the impact of adopting various assessment strategies.
Critique models, objectives and tools of assessment that are utilised for individuals with additional needs.
Design an assessment strategy to identify the needs of an individual, their family and their educational setting.
Analyse how assessment can be used to inform educational practice and instruction, and monitor progress.
Judge the limitations of assessment and the impact of ethical issues.
Utilise appropriate and effective communication skills when discussing assessment issues with all relevant stakeholders. Subject Content 1. The role of assessment in educational contexts;
2. Using assessment to clarify needs of the individual, family and educational setting;
3. The diverse range of assessment approaches (e.g. functional, standardised, diagnostic, strengths-based, curriculum-based) and their implications;
4. Strategies and tools to assess the needs of the individual (e.g. social, emotional, adaptive behaviour, intelligence, academic), and the needs of the family and the educational setting;
5. Current practices used by school systems to assess the needs of students;
6. Assessing need across the lifespan (e.g. special consideration of pre-schoolers);
7. Ethical and legal considerations, limitations and the impact of assessment;
8. Issues of reliability and validity (e.g. cultural and linguistic considerations);
9. Assessment and decision making;
10. Making instructional decisions (e.g. identifying adjustments);
11. Collaborative team decision making;
12. Developing skills in communicating in a written and oral form to both colleagues and families regarding various stages of the assessment cycle. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Simulation 1,000 word report and 10 minutes’ simulation 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Michelle Button Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education (1721) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Learner Wellbeing, Testamur Major (T137) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Teacher Education (TEAC)