Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3009 Alternatives to Violence Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101570 Coordinator Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window Description The key tenet of this subject is the belief that there are superior alternatives to violence for peace building. Holistic development (including socio-cultural, political, economic, governance, etc.) provides the best and most constructive alternatives to violence. The subject examines different alternatives to violence within the broader context of peace and development studies. Students will be equipped with theoretical approaches to alternatives to violence and an ability to evaluate and apply those alternatives in social development contexts. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points or subject 101573 Human Rights, Peace and Development. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate key theoretical approaches to alternatives to violence, non-violence and social change
Evaluate the logic and merit of different alternatives to violence and how those alternatives work
Apply different alternatives to violence to social development issues Subject Content Violence, non-violence, conflict and development
Conflict management, resolution and transformation
Religion and ethnicity
Conflict, natural resources and the environment
On structural violence: Poverty, inequality, marginalization and exclusion
Alternatives to violence (1): Democracy and political development
Alternatives to violence (2): Socio-economic development
Alternatives to violence (3): Civil society and participation
Social change and conflict
Social movements or rebellion?
Non-violence in action Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 attempts out of 6 quizzes 20 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Short Answer 1,000 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Peace and Development Studies, Major (0027) Peace and Development Studies, Minor (0027) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)