Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2028 Identity and Belonging Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101612 Coordinator Ayah Abubasheer Opens in new window Description Identity and belonging are foundational concepts in sociology.  This subject commences with an overview of the ways in which these concepts are understood in the social sciences and how these understandings have been impacted more recently by processes of globalisation.  Through engagement with films, documentaries and academic texts the subject explores different modes and sites of identity and belonging as they circulate on both local and global scales.  Specifically, we will examine topics like gender and sexuality, home and neighbourhood, the nation state and nationality, social class, consumption, work and leisure, ethnicity, youth cultures and new media.  The subject equips students with the concepts and theories necessary for an understanding of social continuity and social change and encourages them to reflect on their own identities and social and cultural positionings. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe sociological theories and concepts relevant to identity, belonging and globalisation.
Critically reflect on issues of identity and belonging as they emerge in film, documentaries and popular culture.
Explain how identities and experiences of belonging have changed, and are changing, over time.
Explain the interrelationship between identity and belonging.
Analyse the significance of issues of identity and belonging for minority groups. Subject Content Identity and belonging
Genders and sexualities
Neighbourhood and home
Ethnicity and race
Nation-states and nationalism
New media and global communities
Consumption and social class
Globalisation and cosmopolitanism Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 4x 250 words each 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ayah Abubasheer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ayah Abubasheer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ayah Abubasheer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anthropology, Major (0002) Anthropology, Minor (0002) Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Creative Living for Cultural Wellbeing, Minor (0334) Sociology, Major (0030) Sociology, Minor (0030) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)