Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3064 Politics, Power and Resistance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101985 Coordinator Alana Lentin Opens in new window Description This subject examines the effects of politics on society and of the social on politics. Politics is understood as a struggle for defining how we live in common with others. We examine how power is attained and maintained and how some ideologies dominate over others to shape opportunities for challenging the status quo. Our focus is the contemporary nation-state in the context of globalisation, increased transnationalism, and shifting balances of power. Key themes include economic and social inequality in the modern state, the colonial power matrix, discipline and punishment, gender and race, and resistance to oppression. Each week will combine theoretical approaches and case-study based 'perspectives' on the topic. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the relationship between political phenomena and social relations in contemporary societies
Engage deeply with the set readings and be able to articulate their main arguments.
Critically reflect upon the meaning, relevance and impact of resistance strategies.
Use written, visual and oral methods for communicating the above. Subject Content 1. Introduction: "All Power to all the People"
2. Why everything costs money?
3. The Coloniality of Power
4. Global health inequities (perspective)
5. Indigenous resistance (perspective)
6. Stigma Power
7. Anti-Poverty Activism (perspective)
8. Gender and Power
9. Gender and Resistance (perspective)
10. The Punishing State
11. "Change Everything": The movement for abolition (perspective)
12. Conspiracy theory and the far-right
13. Conclusion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 700 words 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Critical Review 700 words 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 300 words 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Alana Lentin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Alana Lentin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alana Lentin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)