Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2015 Strategic Event Promotion Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101940 Coordinator Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window Description This subject introduces understandings about events as forms of public relations typologies and promotional models. These include strategic public relations and management processes, researching the event promotion environment, infrastructure, organisational and event promotion processes and funding. Students will analyse behaviours of event publics, audiences and participants, matching event opportunities with publics, and conceptualising events as service experiences. Students will develop strategies for developing event partnerships, funding and sponsorship relationships. These include managing the development of the event setting/venue, programming and personnel affecting the on-site event experience, and developing appropriate merchandising strategies for events. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 3017 - Events Management Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of public relations theory and current public relations practice. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of events management terminology, definitions and models;
Articulate the diversity and significance of the role of events within host organisations and communities and major publics;
Demonstrate an understanding of and measure market demand and event experiences;
Promote an event to the media via the appropriate public relations tactics;
Implement planning processes for an event plan and management design;
Demonstrate an understanding of financial, resource and market sector aspects of events planning;
Present an event plan and management proposal using effective teamwork skills. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 x 10 question quizzes 20 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes/250 word summary 20 N Individual N  Report 4,000 (1,000 words per person, based on teams of 4) 30 N Group N  Portfolio 1,500 words (or equivalent) 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vanessa Campbell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) Festival and Event Management, Major (0306) Public Relations, Major (0160) Public Relations, Minor (0160) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)