Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7040 Perspectives on Nursing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400774 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description This subject addresses the origins and development of nursing knowledge.  A major focus is the development and progress of the discipline of nursing.  It includes an in-depth exploration of the history and philosophy of nursing science, including epistemology and strategies for theory generation in nursing.  The impact of borrowed perspectives on research, theory and practice in the discipline of nursing is also explored.

In addition, the subject addresses the development of theoretical perspectives in nursing including areas of controversy in the discipline.  Numerous perspectives on the relationship between nursing theory, research and practice are considered.  A major emphasis in the subject is development of knowledge and understanding of the link between nursing theory, research, practice and related issues. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7149 - Nursing Knowledge Concepts Models and Theories Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Appraise major perspectives in nursing and their impacts on the development and application of nursing theories and conceptual. models
	2. Synthesize the applicability and importance of nursing theories for nursing science, practice and research.
	3. Critically evaluate major approaches to concept development, concept analysis and concept clarification
	4. Critically evaluate concepts applicable to own area and level of nursing practice using concept analysis methods
	5. Critically reflect on espoused and personal-theory-in-use in nursing practice in general and the application of one’s own nursing practice in particular Subject Content Empirics
Evolution of the discipline of nursing
Generating theory from practice
Human science and nursing
Inductive approaches to theory development
Nursing epistemology
Nursing development unit model
Paradigmatic perspectives in nursing
Philosophy and nursing
Reflective practice
Social science and nursing epistemology
Analysis and evaluation of conceptual models and theories of nursing
Conceptual models and nursing theories
Future of nursing theory
Ideas in nursing knowledge (concepts, constructs, propositions, hypothesis, theories, principles, laws, frameworks and models)
International perspectives on nursing theory
Nursing theory as a guide to practice and research
Theory-practice debate Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2500 words 50 N Individual N  Essay 2500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Clinical Leadership, Testamur Major (T013) Clinical Teaching, Testamur Major (T014) Graduate Certificate in Nursing (4724) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (4723) Master of Nursing (Professional Studies) (4735) Nursing (NURS) Postgraduate Nursing, Major (0046)