Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4035 Occupational Therapy Practice 4 (Honours) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401161 Coordinator Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window Description This subject will allow students to consolidate academic knowledge and practice skills in preparation for becoming a competent beginning practitioner. Students will be expected to actively participate in assessment, analysis, goal setting, intervention and evaluation under the supervision of an occupational therapist. Students will complete practice hours in accordance with World Federation of Occupational Therapy accreditation guidelines. Career development workshops will be conducted to prepare students for entry into the profession of occupational therapy. In addition, honours students will examine their role as beginning practitioner researchers during their placement and the role of research in underpinning clinical decisions. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3024 AND
REHA 4031 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7012 - Occupational Therapy Practice 4 (Honours) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). This subject is only relevant to occupational therapy honours students as part of their embedded program of study. This subject will be specifically tailored to accommodate the program and progression requirements of these students, in particular the need to attend fieldwork placements, and therefore would not be relevant as a general elective. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Manage case loads in preparation for independent practice.
Display professional behaviours and attitudes in practice settings.
Communicate effectively with clients, team members, relevant community groups and industry partners.
Utilise a range of assessments to set long and short term goals.
Implement and evaluate occupational therapy interventions in the practice setting.
Prepare documents in a professional format related to practice.
Practice self-directed learning strategies through the use of a learning contract.
Reflect on their practice experience using a structured format.
Analyse the role of practitioner researchers in the clinical setting. Subject Content 1. Professional practice placement.
2. Professional behaviours and self management skills.
3. Communication skills.
4. Individually negotiated learning contract.
5. Documentation skills for practice.
6. Assessment of individual and group needs.
7. Implementation and evaluation of programs for individuals and groups.
8. Career planning and the transition to work.
9. The role of honours research training in preparing students to become practitioner researchers. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 10 week full time or equivalent practice placement 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 3000 word or equivalent 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)