Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7093 Primary Mathematics and Numeracy 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101580 Coordinator Kate Mulkern Opens in new window Description The subject will develop students’ understandings of children’s construction of mathematical and numeracy concepts during the years from Kindergarten to Year 2. The subject will model explicit numeracy instruction and scaffolding of numerical, spatial, graphical, statistical, and algebraic domains. Students will develop their ability to assess young children’s mathematical understandings and numeracy development. The subject will explore how to create learning experiences for diverse learners, incorporating investigations and digital technologies to enhance the growth of children’s mathematical thinking. Students will interrogate the NSW Mathematics K-10 Syllabus, with a focus on Kindergarten to Year 2, and with a particular emphasis on the Working Mathematically strand. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand ways the beliefs, attitudes, and values held by themselves and their students affect their mathematical learning and teaching. 
Apply knowledge and understanding of the development of those concepts, skills and processes of mathematics related to the teaching of number and algebra, measurement and space, statistics and probability for Kindergarten to Year 2 in accordance with relevant syllabus and curriculum documents.  
Apply knowledge and understanding of a range of pedagogies that demonstrate explicit teaching, modelling and scaffolding practices for teaching and learning mathematics, including problem solving and investigation-based approaches. 
Explain the importance of Working Mathematically for primary school mathematics learners and teachers.
Identify appropriate assessment strategies to inform the planning of teaching/learning activities that cater for the diverse needs of individual students with an emphasis on evidence-based programs.
Apply understandings of the role of mathematics within the broader school curriculum, including the relationship between mathematics, numeracy and literacy. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Kate Mulkern Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kate Mulkern Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kate Mulkern Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Teacher Education (TEAC)