Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7050 Advanced Practice in Gynaecological Surgery Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401314 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is a 10 credit point year-long core subject taken over two terms (5 credit point in each term) in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program. Students undertaking this subject are expected to apply advanced knowledge and skills in clinical settings in a safe and effective manner. There is a strong emphasis in reflecting and reviewing surgical cases based on clinical experience the student has gained at surgery. A review of the relevant medical literature and what changes are envisaged when performing this procedure into the future.   This subject provides students with the opportunity to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects relating to pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative gynaecological surgery and provide an evidence based approach. Ultimately, the aim is to improve the student's surgical skills and patient outcomes. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7046 Co-requisite(s) MEDI 7047 Restrictions students must be enrolled in 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of an Advanced Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) and satisfactory completion of the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery [ie, Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program]. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate surgical principles, techniques and technologies in advanced gynaecological surgery to perform surgery in a safe manner with a high level of confidence
Critically analyse aspects relating to pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative gynaecological surgery to provide an evidence based approach
Evaluate the medical literature on various aspects of gynaecological surgery
Reflect on aspects of gynaecological surgery to improve surgical acumen and patient outcomes in future practice
Critically analyse clinical cases utilising an evidence based approach Subject Content 1.Dissect components of gynaecological surgery based on the student?fs clinical exposure
2.Review clinical cases, including pre-operative surgical planning, surgical technique and recognition and management of surgical complications
3.Review of the medical literature on specific aspects of gynaecological surgery
4.Reflect on professional practice in aspects of gynaecological surgery to improve surgical acumen and patient outcomes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Throughout Semester (SLOs 1-5): 1a. ~ 100 words per week (SLO 2 & 5); 1b. ~ 400 words per week (SLO 4); 1c. ~ 400 words per week (SLO 1,3 & 5) 50 N Individual Y  Case Study Throughout Semester (SLOs 1-5): 2a. ~ 100 words per week (SLO 2 & 5); 2b. ~ 400 words per week (SLO 4); 2c. ~ 400 words per week (SLO 1,3 & 5) 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)