Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 2002 Incubator 1: Innovation and Creativity for Entrepreneurship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301165 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description This subject explores the ways innovative ideas for a product or service can be turned into a successful start-up business. Students explore practical activities to generate creative ideas and learn about innovation, as well as follow the stages involved in developing a conceptual idea. Upon successful completion of the subject, students will possess potential startup options that could be further explored in more advanced incubator subjects. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Project Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Examine the key drivers of creativity and innovation.
2. Determine suitable business models for a startup.
3. Apply a creative process to develop a product or service concept.
4. Outline opportunities for commercialisation from innovation.
5. Apply communication and collaboration skills to complete tasks in a timely and ethical manner. Subject Content 1. The relationship between creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship. 
2. Creative and innovation processes. 
3. Understanding the market & identifying emerging opportunities.  
4. Environmental, political, cultural, financial, and organisational forces behind innovation. 
5. Creative principles behind new venture creation. 
6. Models for entrepreneurship.  
7. Innovative business models and business strategies. Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,500 words 30 N Group N  Poster 800 words + visuals 40 N Individual N  Presentation 7 minutes video 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Design Practice, Major (0225) Innovating, Creating and Problem Solving, Minor (0283) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)