Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 1017 Database Design and Management (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window Description In today’s data-driven world, an in-depth understanding of database management is vital for aspiring ICT professionals. In this subject, you will gain a comprehensive grasp of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS), emphasising their crucial role in modern business. You will acquire essential skills in database modelling and design, including database security and administration, and related ethical considerations. You will also gain experience using Structured Query Language (SQL). Finally, you will put theory into practice by designing, developing, and evaluating a business application database using a commercial RDBMS. This subject not only equips you with the knowledge to manage databases efficiently but also fosters and continues to build your professional communication and teamwork skills. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Database Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the importance of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS).
Apply basic skills in database modelling and design, including Entity-Relationship (ER) diagrams and normalisation techniques.
Demonstrate the ability to manage transactions and understand the essentials of database security and administration including the foundational ethical considerations that apply in these areas.
Utilise Structured Query Language (SQL) for data manipulation.
Design, develop, and evaluate a simple database for a small business application using a RDBMS. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 500 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words including diagrams 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 2000 words or equivalent 30 N Group N  Viva Voce 3 – 5 minutes 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Information Systems (INFS)