Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2043 Project Management in Humanitarian and Development Studies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102707 Coordinator Thierno Diallo Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject replaced by BUSM 3082 - Project Management in Humanitarian and Development Studies. 
The primary aim of this subject is to equip students with the concepts, processes and major techniques employed in project management. By integrating theory and practice this subject provides a strong foundation for students in project management as an essential skill in the field of humanitarian and development studies. The subject uses the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK) which covers the required competencies in project management including planning, monitoring, control, implementation and evaluation. School Social Sciences Discipline Project Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand and demonstrate project, program, and portfolio management.
List and describe the stages of the project life cycle, and the tasks and deliverables for each stage.
Describe and apply key processes in project management including risk management.
Execute and monitor various project management techniques.
Describe and apply leadership and management capabilities required for managing projects. Subject Content Introduction to Project, Program, and Portfolio Management
Project, Program, and Portfolio Selection
Initiating Projects
Planning Projects, Part 1 (Project Integration and Scope Management)
Planning Projects, Part 2 (Project Time and Cost Management)
Planning Projects, Part 3 (Project Quality, Human Resource, Communications, Stakeholder, Risk, and Procurement Management)
Executing Projects
Monitoring, control and evaluation Projects
Closing Projects
International Projects
Best Practices in Project Management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 Quizzes at 25 minutes each 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,200 words 10 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,200 words 30 N Group Y  Final Exam 1,200 words, 2 hours’ duration 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)