Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 0020 Understanding Academic Life (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700281 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the skills needed for success in academic life. It introduces students to a range of topics to facilitate and develop an increased confidence in fundamental academic skills, develop planning and goal setting skills necessary for university. This subject forms a pre-requisite to 700168 Tertiary Study Skills in Criminal and Community Justice, 700174 Tertiary Study Skills in Social Science and 700175 Tertiary Study Skills in Policing. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 0003 - Academic Skills for the Social Sciences JUST 0001 - Academic Skills for Criminal and Community Justice HUMN 0002 - Academic Skills for Policing Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop effective learning strategies to advance the knowledge of the individual and that of their peers.
Understand effective communication (reading, listening, speaking and writing)
Understand the role of Information and Communication Technology in learning and the relationship with online presence and reputation
Develop problem solving skills
Reflect on learning experiences
Understand the role of research and referencing within a tertiary setting Subject Content 1. Introduction to fundamental academic skills
2. Introduction to university culture and the ?elives?f of students within an academic setting
3. Digital communication, ethics and citizenship for professional and academic life
4. Essential skills for success in Tertiary Studies ? referencing, individual presentations, reflection, undertaking research
1. Introduction to fundamental academic skills
2. Introduction to university culture and the ?elives?f of students within an academic setting
3. Digital communication, ethics and citizenship for professional and academic life
4. Essential skills for success in Tertiary Studies ? referencing, individual presentations, reflection, undertaking research Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words 15 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words (plus Studiosity report evidence) 20 N Individual N  Portfolio 300 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 700 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)