Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2018 Cultural and Social Geographies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101590 Coordinator Andrew Gorman-Murray Opens in new window Description Examines the nexus between society, culture and place. Considers contemporary social and cultural planning issues including: local community relations, place management, place redefinitions, ethnic concentration, cultural precincts, and the spatial politics of gender and sexuality. The roles of cultural products in carrying spatial information and reinforcing identity are examined. Introduction to cultural and social geography, and developments in cognate fields of cultural studies and anthropology. Key theories of identity. Case studies range across ethnicity, religion, age, gender, sexuality, class and nationalism. The analysis and assessment advances an appreciation of social and cultural difference and social justice. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 2019 - Cultural and Social Geographies (UWSC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe key paradigmatic shifts within cultural and social geography, social planning, and cultural studies.
Critically evaluate and analyse cultural products.
Analyse representations of place, culture and society.
Evaluate policies and programs for contemporary place management.
Identify and describe key theories of identity and place. Subject Content 1. Old to new cultural geographies, and the rise of social planning, postmodern cities.
2. Theories of identity and place.
3. Representing people and place: national identity in-place
4. Indigeneity, place and post-colonialism.
5. Social distance and spatial distance.
6. The local politics of difference.
7. Geographies of fear and violence.
8. Sexuality and space.
9. The geographies of racism and anti-racism.
10. Constructions of environment.
11. The spaces of religion and faith.
12. Heritage, identity and the production of urban places. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 750 words 25 N Individual Y  Case Study 750 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew Gorman-Murray Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Andrew Gorman-Murray Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Geography and Urban Studies, Major (0010) Geography and Urban Studies, Minor (0010) Geography for Secondary Teaching (0265) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Heritage and Tourism, Minor (0012) Place Management and Planning, Major (0304) Secondary Geography Education, Major (0355) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Urban Studies, Major (0162)