Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7072 Torts Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201051 Coordinator Liesel Spencer Opens in new window Description Torts Law will provide students with the opportunity to critically analyse the key principles of Australian torts law and its impact within the broader legal context. The topics covered include legal principles and policy of a variety of torts, defences and remedies. The subject also introduces students to legal skills, statutory interpretation and legal problem solving, as well as placing the law in the wider political and social context. Students will be able to search for, analyse, and evaluate cases, statutes, and theoretical writings relevant to torts law  to resolve legal problems. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Fundamentals of Australian Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 2013 Torts Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the key principles of Australian torts law and the impact of torts law in the broader legal context.
Analyse cases to resolve legal problems based on principles of Australian torts law.
Apply the principles  and processes of legal reasoning, including case analysis and statutory interpretation to analyse and resolve torts legal problems.
Critically evaluate issues of equity, diversity and social justice in tort law.
Execute clear, concise and persuasive arguments to communicate answers to legal scenario-based problems relevant to torts law. Subject Content Intentional torts 
 Negligence 
Defences 
Concurrent liability 
Bringing it all together: Case study of Stolen Generations litigation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 15 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Liesel Spencer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Liesel Spencer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Pamela Devery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law (LAWS)