Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7067 Property Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201055 Coordinator Pamela Devery Opens in new window Description Students will  learn about the concept of property and the nature of property rights including the boundaries between property and other rights and the boundaries between different forms of property. The subject content includes the doctrine of tenure and estates, native title, and legal and equitable interests in land. Specific topics to be covered include personal property and securities, mortgages, leases, easements and profits a prendre, co-ownership, the Torrens system of statutory registration of interests in land, and the principles for resolving conflicting proprietary interests. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Fundamentals of Australian Law AND
LAWS 7047 Contracts Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3082 Property Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge The basic fundamentals of the Australian Legal System, including the doctrine of precedent and statutory interpretation, contracts and torts law. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse concepts and principles of Australian property law, procedure and policy, and their relationship to broader social, economic and political contexts.
Provide advice in relation to proprietary interests and disputes.
Display clear and logical arguments in responses addressing legal issues relating to property.
Assess ethical issues arising in property law practice and the professional responsibilities of lawyers in promoting justice and service to the community.
Evaluate the development of property law, including Australian Native Title law and its significance in a social justice framework. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation During allocated seminar 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2500 words or equivalent 40 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 20 minutes 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Pamela Devery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Pamela Devery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Pamela Devery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)