Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4037 Advanced Engineering Thesis 1: Preliminary Investigations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301485 Coordinator Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window Description Advanced Engineering Thesis 1 - Preliminary Investigations subject consists of a research project designed and implemented under the direction of an academic supervisor and research mentor. This subject is the culmination of studies for students who have completed their first three years of an undergraduate degree and provides substantial training in Preliminary Investigations. Under staff supervision, students are allocated a particular topic for their research, design their own programme of research, and perform the research. The emphasis of this subject is on the application of research knowledge gained in other subjects to the practical conduct of the individual research project. This subject provides final year Advanced engineering students with the opportunity to undertake research on a specialist topic within their undergraduate field of study. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 15-20 pages 35 N Individual N  Report 30-40 pages 65 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kejun Dong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kejun Dong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) (3771) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)