Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7018 Food Quality Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301182 Coordinator Malik Hussain Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to food quality management principles and their application in ensuring product quality and safety.  Students will learn to develop, evaluate and audit food safety programs based on Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point and total quality management systems. Students will also examine statistical process control, food laws, regulations and codes at the state, national and international levels, as well as the application of scientific risk assessment to the development of food regulations. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 7016 Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret and apply regulations, guidelines and codes of practice relevant to the food quality management processes and procedures.
Apply the principles of Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point to develop a HACCP plan for a food process, identifying critical control points and prerequisite programs to ensure the safety of a food process.
Integrate quality management theories, food safety regulations, and food process knowledge to develop a Quality Manual for the management of safe food.
Apply quality management statistical tools to monitor the quality of a food process.
Critique and apply risk assessment methodology to evaluate safety as it is applied in the development of food regulations.
Apply food regulations and trade practises law to critique food labelling.
Communicate effectively to scientific and professional audiences.
Critically evaluate the interaction between ethics and law for the responsibility, both individual and corporate, to maintain a safe food supply. Subject Content 1. Principles of food regulations; frameworks and codes at the state, national and international levels.
2. Food safety principles including good manufacturing practices, sanitation and Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP).
3. Quality management systems, theory, application and auditing.
4. Quality management statistical tools for monitoring and controlling food quality.
5. Elementary toxicology, principles of food safety and risk assessment, and its role in development of food regulations.
6. Food labelling, including national and international labelling regulations, trade practices law, and allergen labelling programs. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 x 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,800 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 4,000 words (2,000 words per student) 30 N Group N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Malik Hussain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)