Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7061 Legal Analysis and Critique Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201050 Coordinator Jacinta Sassine Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the processes of critical evaluation of arguments, legal communication and logical and critical problem solving. Students will have the opportunity to explore how law is made, some of the institutional limitations on law and justice, and the impact of globalisation on law. It introduces theories about the nature and function of law in historical, political, social, economic, cultural, ethical and international contexts. The connection between race, gender, culture and law is examined within the context of the Australian legal tradition, legal history, and the impact of the Australian legal system on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. Students will use logical and critical skills to develop solutions to problems involving statutory interpretation and the application of precedent; and articulate legal thought effectively and persuasively for diverse audiences. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Fundamentals of Australian Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 1009 Legal Analysis and Critique Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse how law in Australia developed and the impact of these developments on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples.
Analyse theories about the nature and function of law in local and global contemporary contexts and from different perspectives.
Demonstrate logical and critical skills to analyse legal texts.
Demonstrate legal research skills in relation to primary and secondary sources to engage in critical analysis of legal texts, focusing on case analysis.
Articulate legal arguments effectively and persuasively for diverse audiences. Subject Content The Australian legal tradition 
English legal history 
Doctrine of reception and repugnancy 
Australian constitutional independence 
The impact of the Australian legal system on Australian First Peoples 
Critical evaluation of arguments 
The nature of function of law 
Legal formalism and the rule of law 
Gender, race, culture and the law 
Law in an economic context 
Legal communication 
Case analysis, statutory interpretation and legal research. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 20 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Essay 3,000 words 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Jacinta Sassine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Jacinta Sassine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jacinta Sassine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2846) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)