Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3013 Property Portfolio Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200873 Coordinator Jufri Marzuki Opens in new window Description This subject examines the role of property in an investment portfolio, with particular attention given to property portfolio performance analysis and property investment strategy. Indirect property investment vehicles in Australia and overseas are assessed, including Real Estate Investment Trusts, property syndicates, property securities funds and unlisted property funds. The performance analysis of both direct and indirect property is also examined to assess the strategic contribution of property to an investment portfolio. School Business Discipline Investment and Securities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects FINC 3012 Property Portfolio Analysis (V2) LGYA 4695 Property Portfolio Analysis (V2) Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge A sound understanding of commercial property. Learning Outcomes Explain the significance of property in an institutional investment portfolio.
Apply property performance analysis and property portfolio performance analysis to property investment and decision making.
Explain the role of investment strategy in property portfolio management.
Identify the range and features of the various property investment vehicles.
Prepare a REIT valuation report.
Explain the significance of international property in a portfolio. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1250 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 750 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jufri Marzuki Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Jufri Marzuki Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Property, Minor (0289) Property, Testamur Major (T047)