Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3021 Theories of Authority Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101913 Coordinator Norma Lam-Saw Opens in new window Description The subject will trace the idea of authority in the West back to its genesis in Ancient Greece and track its development in modern thought. The aim is to demonstrate the variegated relation between power, law and revolution by closely examining a wide array of texts in a variety of disciplinary fields, including literature. School Humanities & Comm Arts Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 3019 - Politics and Religion Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: describe the historical and conceptual development of the idea of authority
articulate ways in which literature can express political ideas;
identify theories of the state in Western thought;
critique the role of sovereignty in philosophy, literature and culture;
analyse and critique the traditional understanding of law and justice;
evaluate how the relationship between politics and religion affects different ways of thinking;
apply knowledge gained in this subject to other areas of their experience. Subject Content . Thucydides
. Augustine: Peace as Universal Political Value
. 16th century: Birth of Modern Sovereignty
. Hobbes: The Spectre of Religious War
. Spinoza - The Necessary Rebel
. Rousseau - Popular Sovereignty
. The Dictatorship of the Proletariat
. Derrida - Democracy to Come
. Foucault - Biopolitics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2500 words 50 N Individual Y  Essay 1000 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)