Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 2008 Microcontrollers and PLCs Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300044 Coordinator Karthick Thiyagarajan Opens in new window Description Through completion of an applied project students will develop an understanding of the hardware, architecture and the assembly language of microcontrollers in addition to the control of a mechanical system with a programmable logic controller (PLC). The subject looks at the applications of timers, interrupts and serial ports. Furthermore, the general approach in designing a microcontroller in mechanical systems will be studied. Students will use an Omron PLC to control a factory represented by four pneumatic cylinders. After covering the Ladder Logic programming language, they will move on to cover sequential programming and numerical manipulation using PLCs. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Plant and Machine Operations Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 2004 OR
ELEC 1003 OR
ELEC 1009 Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of electronics are required. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design small-scale microprocessor controlled mechanical systems.
Write software instructions to implement various microcontroller operations.
Program a PLC to control a mechanical system.
Use Ladder Logic to execute complex logic operations.
Use sequential programming and feedback from a mechanical system to control a complex sequence of tasks.
Use a PLC to perform numerical manipulation Subject Content 1. Basics of number systems and Boolean algebra, hardware architecture of microcontrollers.
2. Assembly languages.
3. Timers, interrupts and their applications in microcontrollers.
4. Procedures of designing microcontroller based systems.
5. Operation of a pneumatic-mechanical system .
6. Ladder logic.
7. Sequential programming.
8. Numerical manipulation with PLCs. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 50-100 Rungs of Programs 40 N Individual Y  Practical 2 hours per week for 12 weeks 30 N Group/Individual N  Final Exam 2 Hours Open Book 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Mazidi, MA, McKinlay, RD & Causey, D 2016, The PIC microcontroller and embedded systems : using Assembly and C for PIC18, 2nd edn, MicroDigitalEd, Desoto, USA. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karthick Thiyagarajan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Karthick Thiyagarajan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Automation, Concentration (0123) Automation, Minor (0123) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)