Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7031 Applied Research Project Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102696 Coordinator Karen Moses Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two sessions (10 credit points in each session). The research project provides an opportunity to construct an informed research question or hypothesis.  This justified research proposal is completed and investigated independently by students under supervision, over a one-year period. It is conducted in an area of relevance to professional practice, with a central focus on the scientific analysis of a problem or hypotheses. Students can choose from a range of approved research designs, but must undertake and write an analytic review of the relevant literature, formulate a research question, design of an appropriate method, collect and analyse data, interpret findings, and effectively communicate their research in the form of an empirical research report. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7012 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0494 Applied Research Project and Thesis Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1546 Master of Psychology (Clinical Psychology) and 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology, or the coursework component of 8108 PhD/Master of Clinical Psychology. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of undergraduate level research design, methods, and analysis. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Construct an informed research question or hypothesis and a justified research proposal that is relevant to clinical psychology practice (APAC GA: 3.2).
Determine and communicate appropriate research designs, methodologies, and analysis strategies that will address the research question/hypothesis effectively (APAC GA: 3.16).
Prepare an ethics application and complete the process for obtaining ethics clearance for research (APAC GA: 3.13).
Write an analytic literature review at a professional level of competence (APAC GA: 3.16 & 4.2.1i).
Complete an independent piece of research study in an area relevant to professional practice at a professional level of competence (APAC GA: 3.17).
Effectively communicate research in the form of a written empirical report (journal article) (APAC GA: 3.8). Subject Content Negotiating a supervision contract with an academic supervisor.
Individual study in regular consultation with supervisor; including providing a regular report of progress to the supervisor.
Attendance at seminars and workshops conducted from time-to-time to support completion of the research project.
Writing a research proposal; and obtaining ethics clearance.
Writing a literature review.
Determining a research question and/or hypothesis.
Devising a research design, methodology, and analysis strategy.
Interpreting research findings.
Writing an empirical report (journal article). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 5,000 words excluding references and appendices

 S/U Y Individual Y  Report 5,000 words excluding references, tables and appendices 100 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City Online Subject Contact Karen Moses Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Online Subject Contact Karen Moses Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City Online Subject Contact Karen Moses Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Online Subject Contact Karen Moses Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812)