Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3072 Tourism Industry Professional Placement Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102385 Coordinator Garth Lean Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject is replaced by TOUR 3003 - Visitor Economy Professional Placement. Tourism Industry Professional Placement (TIPP) provides students with understanding and experience of the tourism or related industry workplace. Students work in a voluntary capacity with an industry host to gain work-ready skills and undertake professionally appropriate tasks.  Students complete a Professional Placement Proposal and Professional Placement Report. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1664 Bachelor of Tourism Management or 6030 Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management, where this is an alternate core subject. Students enrolled in the 1667 Bachelor of Social Science (Heritage and Tourism Major) may include this subject as an elective. Students must have successfully completed 160 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate practical employability skills that can be useful for professional career development;
Apply problem-solving skills and plan for situation improvement;
Demonstrate capacity to work effectively in team environments;
Design and manage a program of professional development;
Evaluate and report on a professional development/situation improvement program. Subject Content Introduction to work-based learning - pre-placement orientation and planning
Professional development goal-setting and planning
Project and progress management
Professional development evaluation and reporting
Completion of a situation improvement project/task Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 3500 words 60 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Evaluation N/A S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Tourism (TOUR)