Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 0001 Introduction to Human Behaviour (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700220 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an overview and evolution of psychology and conventional scientific techniques and methods to explain and understand the causes of human behaviour and human personality.  It also assists students in the development of academic skills commensurate with tertiary studies.  Topics to be studied at an introductory level include: the history of psychology, intelligence, social psychology, psychoanalytic theories, behaviourist/learning theories, cognitive theories, biological view, developmental psychology and abnormal psychology. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 0002 - Introduction to Human Behaviour (UWSC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Distinguish key characteristics of major theories and concepts of human behaviour.
Identify the influence of individual differences and of environmental context on behaviour.
Review academic sources related to the field of human behaviour for structure and topic focus.
Develop an argument in written form and apply appropriate referencing conventions. Subject Content History of psychology, its ancient roots and evolution as a scientific discipline.
Scientific principles of psychology
Applied psychology.
Theories of intelligence.
Psychoanalytic perspective
Cognitive perspective
Biological perspective
Social psychology.
Developmental psychology.
Abnormal psychology as part of the major perspectives
Humanistic perspective Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 250 words 15 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 15 N Individual N  Quiz 2 hours (250 words) 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186)