Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7001 Aboriginal & Culturally Responsive Pedagogies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102085 Coordinator Shirley Gilbert Opens in new window Description In this subject students will be introduced to research, perspectives and practices associated with successful and culturally appropriate curriculum and pedagogy for teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adolescent students. The subject is informed by current research practices, policy developments and curriculum deliverables that require culturally appropriate, responsive, respectful and informed teaching and learning practices that will benefit all education participants. Students will gain knowledge, insight, skills and appreciation of the importance and implications of consultation, negotiation and two-way partnerships with local Aboriginal communities and schools. It will also focus on empowering students to effectively reflect on all aspects of inquiry-based teaching with respect to Aboriginal perspectives and the delivery of lessons and effective support to all secondary students. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching  program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM and have successfully completed 40 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories, the impact of culture, cultural identity and diversity, and languages in rural, remote and urban schooling.
Identify specific learning needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adolescent students in rural, remote and urban settings.
Examine the roles and responsibilities of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander support personnel within systems and at school, and their contribution to education and community in improving educational outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adolescent students.
Apply evidence-based principles when selecting specific literacy and numeracy strategies and developing resources that address the cultural and Aboriginal English and language learning needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adolescent students.
Assess Australian and NSW government educational priorities and policies which impact on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education.
Evaluate the role teachers, staff and schools play in the promotion of communication strategies which will enhance community consultation and the establishment of partnerships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parents and communities. Subject Content 1.     What does it mean to be Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander person?
2.     What role does Aboriginal history play in the understanding of Australia and its national and international identity? Why is developing an understanding of Aboriginal history and cultures important in teacher education? Why are perspectives and deep knowledge of Aboriginal history; key government policies, legislation and legal decisions in relation to land and water rights, and heritage and identity important to the life of an effective teacher? How will teachers use this knowledge in their own teaching areas to provide engagement, authenticity and respect in the delivery of content to students of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander backgrounds?
3.     What do current attendance, retention, literacy, numeracy and suspension data tell us about the status of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education in Australia? How representative are these data of Australian community expectations? What can be done to improve the life outcomes of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students?
4.     What are current Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educational policies? How are Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives and delivery requirements embedded in the curriculum? What does research tell us about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education
a.    Brief history of Aboriginal education and policy
b.    Definitions and complexities of Aboriginal identities
c.    Demographics and schooling: what are the links? My School, NAPLAN, Australian Curriculum
d.    Distribution of power and power relationships in schools
e.    School is for me (2006) / Teachers for a Fair Go (2012)
f.     Review of Aboriginal education (2005)
g.    For example Yunkaporta (2009) and Sarra (2007)
5.     How can teachers and schools enhance community consultation and the establishment of partnerships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parents and communities? How do teachers and schools work with community to develop and sustain resource networks, classroom materials, strategies and partnerships that are appropriate for our teaching?
a.    Working with schools developing a whole school plan
b.    Aboriginal Education Policy 2010
c.    Working with community, Aboriginal Education Consultative Groups, Aboriginal workers and professional associations parents and caregivers, and school support staff
d.    Aboriginal mental health and wellbeing in schools
e.    Behaviour and Shame
6.     How might research and community relationships develop stronger cultural expressions and identity for students in schools?
7.     What is best practice pedagogy for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students? How is best practice reported in the research literature? How do we develop / locate / work with community to develop materials and partnerships for our teaching that is appropriate?
8.     How can reflective practice shift teachers’ images of ‘self’ / pedagogies / settings to ensure equity to all students?
a.    What is an Aboriginal Pedagogy?
b.    What is quality teaching using Aboriginal approaches?
c.    How do teachers make themselves more effective in classrooms with high diversity?
d.    How do teachers become ‘deadly’ teachers? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 Words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 3,000 Words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 Words 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Shirley Gilbert Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Shirley Gilbert Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1716) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)