Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 1006 Outdoor Recreation (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700063 Coordinator Margaret Smith Opens in new window Description Students will learn about the variety of outdoor recreational pursuits available to individuals, whether in a school-based or community setting. Through active participation and guided instruction, students will also learn how to supervise specific forms of outdoor recreation. Lecture content will reinforce learning and skill development through the study of the development, administration and delivery of school-based and community public recreation programs, as well as  studying the role of recreation within Australia. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport and Recreation, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 1005 - Outdoor Recreation Restrictions Students must be enrolled at Western Sydney, The College. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand the concepts that pertain to the discrete areas of Outdoor Recreation in Australia;
Explain and discuss policy and procedure documents relating to the Outdoor Recreation in NSW Schools and industry;
Demonstrate ability as an effective team member;
Demonstrate practical skills and knowledge in the areas of minimal impact, risk analysis and conflict resolution;
Demonstrate familiarity and competence in Outdoor Recreation Industry's accreditation processes;
Develop an advocacy position for the role of outdoor recreation pursuits within the context of minimal environmental impact, particularly as these pursuits apply to wilderness and special areas;
Demonstrate an understanding of the importance of risk analysis in outdoor recreation, including legal responsibilities and the facilitation of a group;
Describe aboriginal cultures, legends and the special bond and sense of place these have in caring for the land;
Have an understanding of the impact European settlement has had on the environment.
Demonstrate practical skills and knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of a range of equipment required to successfully undertake specific outdoor recreation activities;
Use computer based technologies to locate, access, evaluate, manipulate, create, store and retrieve information
Complete all field work requirements, that span a range of outdoor recreation pursuits, in own time and at own expense.
Demonstrate competence in common land-based outdoor recreation pursuits such as camping, rock climbing and abseiling, hiking, mountain biking, orienteering, golf and tennis. Subject Content The theory of recreation and leisure, as well as active participation in numerous outdoor recreation pursuits will provide;
1. Concepts and policy direction in Outdoor Recreation;
2. Environmental impact, conflict resolution and risk analysis in outdoor recreation;
3. National accreditation scheme in outdoor recreation;
4. Implication of theories and practice of the conduct of outdoor recreational activities in contemporary Australia;
5. Risk assessment and legal responsibilities in outdoor recreational pursuits;
6. Policies and procedures of Outdoor Recreation Industry groups;
7. Policies and procedures of the NPWS of NSW in relation to National Parks facilities, Aboriginal Cultures and Environmental impacts;
8. Field work requirements: All students will be required to attend and complete field work activities that span a range of outdoor recreation pursuits, as described next.
9. Participation in common land-based outdoor recreation pursuits such as camping, rock climbing and abseiling, hiking, mountain biking, orienteering, golf and tennis. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    4 outdoor recreation skill assessments  40 N Individual   1500 word report detailing the development and delivery of a chosen outdoor recreation pursuit in school and community settings  20 N Individual   Final Examination – 2 hours  40 N Individual Structures that include subject Sport and Recreation (SPRT)