Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6001 Writers at Work Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tegan Daylight Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to Australian writers currently at work in the industry. How do Australian writers juggle the business and creative aspects of writing? Where do they publish, what forms do their creative practices take, and how do they survive financially? The classes will be a mixture of guest lectures and interviews in which writers, editors and agents share their experience of writing industries. Students will be encouraged to actively engage with industry professionals, and to engage critically with the work of significant Australian writers. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7020 - Writing Form Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 - Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing or 8083 - Bachelor of Research Studies. Learning Outcomes 1. Critique the ways in which different cultural contexts can shape and influence creative writing
2. Critically analyse the relationship between authors, publishers, editors and readers
3. Appraise the relationship between the economics of writing and publishing and writers’ work
4. Conduct independent research and analysis on Australian writers and their texts, and critique their approaches to style and content
5. Demonstrate familiarity with different approaches to the practice of being an Australian writer Subject Content 1. A close reading of the work of at least three significant Australian writers
2. The opportunity to meet and engage with at least three significant Australian writers
3. An overview of the writer’s place in creative industries
4. The practice of being a creative writer 
5. The economics of being a writer Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 4000 words Or 300 words (or equiv) plus 1000 word essay 90 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Tegan Daylight Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1833) Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)