Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 4005 Field Education 2 Credit Points 30 Legacy Code 400522 Coordinator Sam Lane Opens in new window Description This subject incorporates the final social work placement and will consolidate the experiences gained from Field Education 1 and 2, and further assist students to clearly articulate their frame of reference within a critically reflective practice before entering employment. Students will be able to choose placements in direct service work, the community and organisational context of social work practice as well as community development and research. A variety of social work and related agencies in and around Sydney will be utilised.  The Field Education Coordinator will be responsible for the selection and arrangement of placements according to AASW guidelines. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 30cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 3020 OR
WELF 2005 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1666 Bachelor of Social Work or 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work and Students must complete 240 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Assumed Knowledge Advanced understanding of practice theories and range of social work methods including casework, group work, community work, research and policy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Utilise advanced skills in a specialised area of social work;
Be autonomous and independent in practice;
Articulate the values, interests and ideologies that underpin practice in the agency, and evaluate their implications social work for practice;
Constructively contribute to the work of the organisation and contribute ideas for change or improvement;
Critically reflect on their own practice, and evaluate their readiness for entering the social work workforce. Subject Content Writing a job application and resume
Examining practice competence ?the ?etheory and practice divide?f
Exploring skills in dealing with difficult situations
Effective use of supervision
Overview of knowledge and skills for social work practice
Social justice as a framework for practice
Social work and political practice
Working in uncertainty ? the first year of practice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 1500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Report 1000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 600 words S/U Y Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Sam Lane Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sam Lane Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)