Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2007 Podiatry Pre-Clinical Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400933 Coordinator Zainab Al-Modhefer Opens in new window Description This subject will prepare students for working with patients in the UniClinic and external placement through consolidation and application of podiatric theory and assessment skills first introduced in Year 1. Students will develop knowledge of effective strengths-based communication skills through small group work, participation in workshops, regular opportunities for discussion, and group clinical work. The subject will also apply student knowledge of functional anatomy, dermatological, vascular, neurological, and biomechanical assessment techniques and management into the context of common podiatric conditions. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 1010
COMM 1007
PUBH 1006
REHA 2005 Co-requisite(s) REHA 2003 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 7036 - Podiatry Pre-clinical Studies Restrictions The subject is Podiatry specific and restricted only to students enrolled in 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Students in this subject undertake4 days of scheduled clinical activity. It is therefore essential students have the required clinical and academic knowledge scaffolded throughout content in program codes 4708 and 4709. Students must meet all inherent requirements for the podiatry program. Assumed Knowledge Introduction to Podiatry, Anatomy, Communication skills and Biomechanics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply the principles of professionalism, infection control and work health and safety (WH&S) in theoretical and clinical settings.
  
2. Apply and interpret appropriate vascular, neurological, biomechanical and dermatological assessment skills for use in the context of common pathological conditions.
 
3. Demonstrate safe instrument handling, manual skills application, and skills in manufacture of basic orthotic therapies for management of podiatric conditions. 4. Critique the role of culture and culturally safe practice on foot health outcomes across population groups including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 5. Analyse the characteristics of effective strength-based communication that facilitates the building of respectful, inclusive, and culturally responsive relationships with patients and their families, carers, and other health professionals.
 
6. Apply reflective clinical practice principles in health care provision. Subject Content Communication Skills
1. Introduction to patient history taking and case presentation skills for use in the UniClinic
2. The role of language in culturally responsive health care
3. Development of strengths-based communication skills 
 
Cultural capability training
1.Culture as a determinant of general health and foot health
2.Cultural safety and responsiveness in health care service delivery
3.Colonialism and white privilege and impacts on health care delivery and health care access in Australia Professional behaviour 
1. Overview of legal and professional requirements
2. UniClinic induction including clinic protocols, procedures and documentation
3. Reflective practice
 
Clinical skill development:
1. Sterilisation and infection control
2. Instrument handling
3. Basic manual podiatry skills
4. Aseptic no-touch technique
5. Basic padding and strapping
6. Manufacture of chairside devices
7. Clinical placement Non-cast orthoses fabrication skills
 1. Principles of non-cast orthoses as a mechanical therapy
 2. Orientation into the orthoses laboratory, including risk assessment and WH&S procedures
 3. Development of basic workshop skills to fabricate non-cast orthoses Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 30 minutes 50 N Individual Y  Quiz 90 minutes 50 Y Individual Y  Participation Compulsory attendance at all clinical teaching activities S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 4 days of supervised clinical activity S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task Evidence of compliance submitted by Week 3 S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Zainab Al-Modhefer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Other Health (HLTH) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)