Academic Handbook Current Edition PHYS 1002 Physics 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300828 Coordinator Nicholas Tothill Opens in new window Description Physics is the study of the fundamental nature of matter, energy, space-time, and motion. It uses conceptual, mathematical and experimental tools to achieve this understanding. In this subject, we survey mechanics, electromagnetism, optics and thermal physics, and briefly consider relativity, quantum physics and nuclear physics. Conceptual, mathematical and experimental understanding of physics will be developed, and the use of the tools of physics (e.g. estimation, uncertainty, dimensional analysis) will be introduced. This subject provides non-specialists (e.g. students in other majors and aspiring secondary teachers) with a good basic overview of the subject, and prepares specialist students for further study. School Science Discipline Physics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PHYS 1003 - Physics 1 PHYS 1004 Physics 1 (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge HSC 2 Unit Mathematics Band 4 (Not General Mathematics) or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Describe a physical problem in terms of an appropriate conceptual and mathematical framework.
Explain the principles involved and the equations or other mathematical models that govern a given physical problem..
Carry out calculations based on physical models and interpret the results.
Record, present and interpret experimental data.
Estimate the errors in a measurement and propagate the effects of these errors through simple calculations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 x 30 minute quizzes 30 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Log/Workbook 3hr lab classes in alternate weeks during semester 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 80 minutes 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nicholas Tothill Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189) Physics and Astronomy (PHYS) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119)