Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7029 Engineering Project 2 (PG) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301396 Coordinator Qi Cheng Opens in new window Description This subject is a continuation of subject Engineering Project 1 (PG). Students will further develop their professional skills in engineering design, research, and presentation. This will be achieved through the independent work on the proposed engineering design or research topic under an academic supervisor. Students are required to employ the identified design plan or research methodologies to carry out the proposed design or research work, fulfil the design or research objectives, evaluate and analyse the results, and present the results and findings in an oral presentation, a research paper and a final project report. This subject will demonstrate students' professional level of conducting an engineering project. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 7028 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge in the relevant field of chosen major. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply project management principles that incorporate time and financial management to develop practical and innovative engineering solutions.
Apply effective written and verbal communication skills tailored to the appropriate audience.
Design engineering experiments using a well formulated problem, an appropriate research methodology, data requirements, hypotheses and research questions to achieve objectives.
Apply systems engineering methods for carrying-out systematic research.
Evaluate research outcomes on a particular field and to the realms of the Engineering professions. Subject Content This subject is about developing an individual engineering design or research under an academic supervisor. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 6-8 pages (2000-2500 words)
 15 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Report 50-80 pages (15000-25000 words including drawings and calculations) 65 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qi Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qi Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Engineering (3693) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)