Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7031 Financial Institution Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 51165 Coordinator Linda Wu Opens in new window Description This subject provides participants with an overview of the types of financial institutions and the regulatory context within which they operate.  Financial risk management and corporate responsibility serve as an underpinning framework to consider the complexity associated with managing contemporary financial institutions in an Australian and International context.  A focus of the subject is to provide participants with an opportunity to use techniques to measure and manage financial risk. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Assumed Knowledge 51163 - Financial Institutions and Markets and/or 200426 - Corporate Finance. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the main types of financial risk confronted by financial institutions;
Apply relevant techniques to measure and manage financial risks;
Identify the main regulations and operations of financial institutions within such regulations;
Critically evaluate contemporary issues, including financial risks, affecting financial institutions and their owners, managers, employees and customers in an Australian and international context. Subject Content Why are financial intermediaries special?
Risks of financial institutions
Interest rate risk
Credit risk
Fintech and operational risk
Sovereign risk
Market risk and off-balance-sheet risk
Foreign exchange risk
Liquidity risk
Managing risks Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 3,000 words 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Linda Wu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Finance, Major (0226) Graduate Diploma in Applied Finance (exit only) (2796) Master of Applied Finance (2759) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782) Master of Finance (2705)