Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1009 Creative Writing: Practical Skills and Knowledge Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102437 Coordinator Luke Carman Opens in new window Description This is the second of two Level 1 foundation subjects in the Creative Writing Major. The subject focuses on developing students into writers by giving them the practical skills and theoretical knowledge needed to become published writers. Students will develop a body of original creative work while reflecting critically upon writing practice. The subject is built around participation in writing workshops, which emphasise improving your work via practical feedback from tutors and peers. Themes covered include writing the personal, writing about place, experimentation, specificity, originality, voice and starting a career in writing. No previous creative writing experience is necessary. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand writing forms and identify hose concepts most important to the kinds of writing they would like to produce;
Write short creative works (or series of works) using a range of techniques, styles and/or forms;
Use drafting and editing processes to write more effective creative works;
Write and read critically about key creative writing concepts;
Recognise ways in which different cultural contexts can shape and influence creative writing;
Understand and make use of the benefits of workshopping their writing. Subject Content Students will be required to work with the kinds of practical and theoretical knowledge essential to developing effective creative writing, working towards publication. Students will begin to work more intensively in a workshop mode, which involves sharing the work developed through exercises and assignments with the group, to better understand how effectively their writing manages to engage with and communicate with an audience. The workshops will be overseen by a team experienced published writers and focus on the contexts of the contemporary publishing industry. subject material may include:
Writing the personal;
Writing about place;
Making best use of techniques, including experimental techniques;
Understanding the forms of writing and ways they can affect or speak to readers;
Developing a specific understanding of your themes, and working out how to say what you want to say;
Understanding voice and originality;
Developing an ability to read works critically and apply these critiques to an understanding of how to write well;
Reading, writing and re-writing for publication. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 750 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Participation Semester 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Luke Carman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Luke Carman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005)