Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7016 Practice Research Studio Housing Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301383 Coordinator Angelo Korsanos Opens in new window Description Practice Research Studio Housing shall focus upon the research and design of a comprehensive architectural project over the duration of the semester through either a civic, residential, or hybrid project type (as distinct from Practice Research Studio Civic in the preceding semester). Students will explore topics related to the umbrella of urban transformation and to contemporary architectural practices through the studio work, and will engage with a broad community of professionals, stakeholders, and programmatic situations. Projects shall be representative of the often-contested intersection of competing interests of the urban environment, where the designer must conduct rigorous analysis and research to inform high-quality design outcomes that are attendant to social, ethical, regulatory, technical, procurement, and environmental issues.  Students will undertake projects that involve international sites, project contexts, programs, or collaborations.   Students are expected to develop project work to a high degree of resolution in terms of spatial and experiential quality, demonstrating through clear communication and representation techniques the technical proficiency, conceptual rigour, and theoretical and historical knowledge that support the project outcomes.   Projects in the studio will vary in scale, setting, building type, and complexity from year to year, with a thematic emphasis that contributes to the overall research direction of the architecture program at WSU. Students will be expected to engage in the studio with a high degree of individual motivation, resourcefulness, and inquisitiveness as would be expected of professional level studies. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) ARCH 7008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3761 Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse and communicate the diverse interests and factors which inform a design project, including client requirements and objectives, physical site characteristics, regulatory frameworks, social and cultural context, and the surrounding environment.
Implement a reflective and iterative design process guided by ethical research and evaluated against project criteria and context.
Develop a response to a design project which is informed by historical, theoretical, and disciplinary knowledge and awareness, articulated through written and graphic presentation.
Create design options that address the aesthetic, functional, contextual and technical aspects of a mixed use housing project at a professional level.
Propose appropriate materials, components and systems for the specific context that support a holistic project Subject Content 1. Complex programmatic project brief and building type in an urban transformation context
2. Developing strategic frameworks, engaging multiple stakeholders, and using a design-synthesis approach
3. Research, analysis, and theory to inform design speculation and propositions
4. Emphasis upon integration of building services, structural engineering, transport, fire safety and egress, and environmental systems into the project design
5. Application of skills in architectural detailing and documentation toward implications for procurement and construction
6. Attendance to issues of environmental sustainability, regulation, social, ethical, and disciplinary concern Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Construction Site Induction Safety “White Card”. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Drawings and/or models and 300 words 20 N Group N  Presentation Drawings and/or models 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 40 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,000 words and graphic compendium 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Angelo Korsanos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761)