Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2032 Plant Physiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300865 Coordinator Oula Ghannoum Opens in new window Description Plants are the primary producers of terrestrial ecosystems and moderators of climate change. This subject introduces students to how plants grow and interact with their environment. Students will learn how leaves turn sunlight energy into sugars; stems transport water, solutes and organic compounds; roots acquire water and mineral nutrients by themselves or in association with soil microbes; and hormones regulate plant development and responses to the environment. This knowledge set is crucial for managing our Century's key challenges of food security and climate change. Students will be required to travel to the Hawkesbury campus where the practicals take place. School Science Discipline Botany Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5946 - Introductory Plant Physiology BIOS 2033 - Plant Physiology Assumed Knowledge Sound knowledge of biology and chemistry equivalent to undergraduate Level 1 subjects. Learning Outcomes Describe the basic plant structures: cell, leaf, stem, root
Explain the fundamental processes of photosynthesis, including the light-dependent and light-independent reactions
Explain the principles of leaf gas exchange, including how the environment regulates the trade-off between carbon gain and water loss in higher plants
Explain the principles of plant water relations, and of water and nutrient uptake and transport
Describe the main principles of plant mineral nutrition, and explain the role of key plant-microbe interactions in plant nutrition
Describe the basic principles of plant growth and development, including the role of hormones in controlling plant growth, development and environmental responses.
Record accurate and valid measurements, critically analyse experimental results and synthesise findings to reach valid conclusions.
Communicate orally and in writing the findings of scientific investigations and contemporary issues in plant physiology incorporating findings from the literature through literature surveys on a specific topic Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz - In-class quizzes 5 x In-class quizzes worth 4 marks each Completed during a practical/tutorial session; up to 30 min each, short answers & MCQ 20 N Individual   Quiz - Online quizzes  2 x Online quizzes worth 10 marks each Completed online, up to 60 min per quiz, short answers & MCQ; covering 1 practical session 20 N Individual   Report covering practical session 1 Up to 2,000 words 30 N Individual   Final Exam - MCQ Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Natural Science, Major (0213)