Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1011 Educational Psychology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102636 Coordinator Natalie White-Wall Opens in new window Description This subject highlights the interacting contributions of biology and environment to the development of children and explores how teachers' knowledge of this process must inform their pedagogy. Specifically, this subject examines classic and current theories and research evidence-base relating to the biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development of children and the implications of these for learning and classroom practice. It includes theoretical perspectives on the brain and learning including memory formation, retention and models of motivation, attention, and knowledge acquisition. This subject dispels common educational neuromyths and focuses on evidence-informed pedagogical practices that support learning, engagement, motivation, and wellbeing in culturally responsive classrooms. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary), 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education or 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply an understanding of issues related to biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development across childhood and adolescence.
Apply an understanding of cognitive processes to design effective pedagogical practices.
Assess the implications of key learning and motivational theories for teaching and learning.
Evaluate the developmental research evidence-base for a range of instructional strategies to determine appropriate use depending on educational context.
Appraise culturally responsive methods for promoting students’ social and emotional wellbeing. Subject Content Recognition of context in child and adolescent development
Biological, cognitive, social, emotional, and moral development across childhood and adolescence 
Cognitive processes (learning, attention, memory, executive functions), neuromyths, and implications for teaching and learning
Learning theories and evidence-based pedagogical practice
Motivation theories and implications for teaching and learning
Social and emotional wellbeing in culturally responsive classrooms Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Up to 10 questions per week 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 8 minutes 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Maree Skillen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Natalie White-Wall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Natalie White-Wall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Associate Degree in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1940) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1878) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1941) Other Education (EDUC) Teacher Education (TEAC)