Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 3001 Analysis of Agricultural Supply and Demand Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301098 Coordinator Richard Thomas Opens in new window Description Students will develop understanding of the integrated nature of the agri-food value chain (supply and demand) from economic, environmental and social perspectives. Integrative processes and tools from established value chains will be evaluated in the context of changing consumer sentiment. Through analysis of economic and environmental gains (e.g. water and energy savings), students will identify emerging opportunities and challenges for improved and/or alternative food distribution systems. Analytical and reporting tools will be used to develop competence in data management, with emphasis on increasing communication from consumer to producer. School Science Discipline Agriculture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6131 - Analysis of Agricultural Supply Chains Assumed Knowledge Students enrolling in this subject should have an understanding of basic statistics and a fundamental understanding of the consumer-driven nature of the economy. This subject will build on aspects of agri-food supply chains introduced in earlier subjects in the Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security program. Learning Outcomes Apply appropriate research methodology and analyse quantitative and qualitative results
Apply data management principles to the understanding and improvement of agricultural value chains (supply and demand)
Evaluate the influence of consumer behaviours on agricultural value chains
Critique, integrate and communicate information to develop effective and innovative agricultural value chains
Critically analyse the social, economic and environmental risks and benefits of improved agricultural value chains. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online  quiz 2 x 45 mins 10 N Individual   Analysis of selected  mainstream agricultural supply chain 1,500 words 30 N Individual   Comparative analysis of the mainstream agricultural supply chain used in (Assignment 2) with another, more innovative, agricultural supply chain. 2,500 words 50 N Individual   Accrued industry work experience 30 hours S/U Y Individual   Industry work experience written article 300 words 10 N Individual Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Natural Science, Major (0213) Social Sciences, Major (0216)