Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 7005 Tourism, Hospitality and Events Policy and Governance Credit Points 10 Description This subject explores policy and governance in the tourism, hospitality  and events sectors. Students will explore current policies, and learn how to critically analyse them, especially in the context of sustainable development. The subject will also explore different governance structures in these sectors, and their influence on policy development and sustainability outcomes. After completing this subject, students will be well placed to take on governance, planning and policy roles to reshape the tourism, hospitality and events sectors, both in Australia and internationally. School Social Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 6001 - Tourism Heritage and Events Policy and Governance Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of tourism, hospitality and/or events is desirable. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Analyse the role of governance stakeholders in the tourism, hospitality and events sectors in Australian and international contexts.
Critically analyse tourism, hospitality and events policy and its role in the tourism, hospitality and events sectors in Australian and international contexts.
Evaluate the relationship of tourism, hospitality and event policies to sustainable development outcomes.
Propose sustainable tourism, hospitality and event policies.
Appraise the multidisciplinary nature of the tourism system. Subject Content 1. Tourism, Hospitality and Events Governance.
2. Tourism, Hospitality and Events policy analysis at International (macro), National (meso), and Local (micro) scale for a sustainable future.
3. Critical Tourism, Hospitality and Events policy and governance. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,200 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 25 N Individual N  Proposal 1,500 words 45 N Individual N Structures that include subject Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Tourism (TOUR)