Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7009 Clinical Neuropsychology and Psychopharmacology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101817 Coordinator Andrew McKinnon Opens in new window Description This subject provides a comprehensive grounding in contemporary neuropsychological theories, methods and measures, including understanding of neurocognitive disorders. The nature of the cognitive systems involved in attention, memory, language, spatial processing, and executive functions will be reviewed, with discussion of the neuropsychological assessment of each of these systems. The subject also includes coverage of the classification, use and efficacy of common psychopharmacological agents. The subject will stress the importance of neural abnormalities in patients, and how these are related to symptoms and behavioural dysfunction. Working within inter-disciplinary contexts that include psychological, pharmacological and surgical treatments for neuropsychological disorders will also be discussed. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7003 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1205 - Clinical and Forensic Neuropsychology Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1546 Master of Psychology (Clinical Psychology) or 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology or 8108 Doctor of Philosophy/Master of Clinical Psychology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Draw from appropriate theory to analyse the neuropsychology of neurocognitive disorders (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.5, 4.2.1i, ii &iii, & 4.2.2i) ).
Demonstrate evidence-based practice skills in neuropsychological assessment and treatment formulation, including in the context of inter-disciplinary interventions (APAC GA: 3.5, 3.6, 4.2.2ii, 4.2.2iii, & 4.2.3iii).
Classify and explain the mechanisms of psychoactive drug action (APAC GA: 4.2.1iv).
Characterise and explain the common psychopharmacological treatments (APAC GA: 4.2.1iv).
Demonstrate applied understanding and competency in the delivery of at least one specific neurocognitive assessment measure (APAC GA: 3.4, 3.6, 4.2.2ii & 4.2.2iii). Subject Content 1. Neuroanatomy for Clinical Psychologists
2. Neuropsychological Assessment (Neuropsychological Methods, Screening & Interdisciplinary Practice)
3. Disorders of Executive Control, Social Cognition & Emotion Dysregulation
4. Alcohol & Substance Use
5. Memory and Neurodegenerative Disorders
6. Neuropsychology of Psychiatric Disorders
7. Acquired Brain Injuries
8. Neuropsychological Rehabilitation & Intervention
9. Introduction to Psychopharmacology
10. Psychopharmacology: Depression & Anxiety
11. Psychopharmacology: ADHD & Psychotic Disorders
12. The Interplay Between Psychopharmacology & Clinical Psychology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual Y  Practical 60 minutes demonstration 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 48 Hours - Administered over vUWS 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Tinashe Dune Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Tinashe Dune Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812)