Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3003 Clinical Education (General) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401197 Coordinator Daniel Thomson Opens in new window Description This clinical subject builds on the knowledge and skills developed in first 2 years of physiotherapy study. It focuses on generic aspects of physiotherapy professional practice, which will have been developed through a variety experiential and community engagement learning activities. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include communication, documentation, and reflection, professional and ethical behaviour. In addition, students will develop skills in client assessment, interpretation of findings and education. A professional practice placement is incorporated into this subject. This subject requires physiotherapy students to demonstrate assessment, intervention skills and problem solving skills in a general environment. The focus will be on generic skills such as communication, problem solving, manual handling, gait and basic assessment skills. The placement may include ambulatory care, acute care, rehabilitation or paediatrics. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2001 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3009 AND
REHA 3017 AND
REHA 3015 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Display effective communications skills, ethics and professionalism.
Plan, justify and conduct an appropriate subjective and objective assessment.
Synthesise assessment information to develop and negotiate a client-specific problem list and treatment plan in consultation with the client.
Justify and implement evidence-based and effective management strategies.
Justify treatment decisions based on theory, research and the interpretation of outcome measurement.
Monitor, evaluate and progress treatments as indicated.
Demonstrate safe and ethical work practices, respecting the culture and diversity of the client and other health professionals. Subject Content Theory, research and practice, within an advanced care physiotherapy context, to: Conduct a subjective and objective examination
Interpret findings and prioritise client problems
Develop/negotiate a treatment plan
Implement appropriate management techniques
Monitor, evaluate and progress treatment as appropriate
Demonstrate effective communication and professionalism, while respecting culture and diversity
Collaborate with other health professionals
Ensures safe work practice
Undertake discharge planning A general clinical environment may include aged care units within a hospital, private practice and community-based services as well as acute care services within a hospital. Students will be required to demonstrate skills in assessment, clinical reasoning and intervention skills with a focus on manual handling, gait and general assessment measurements. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 5 weeks (APP) 80 Y Individual Y  Case Study 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Daniel Thomson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Other Health (HLTH) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)