Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7068 Learning and Teaching in Challenging Contexts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102158 Coordinator Jennifer Curtis Opens in new window Description This subject involves the study of pedagogy in contexts regarded as ‘challenging’. The main focus will usually be on the contexts of school and early childhood, but alternative sites of education will also be studied as appropriate. The definition of a challenging context will be considered with an emphasis on contexts of poverty. Students will undertake a critical analysis of policies and practices that impact and respond to challenging contexts. The subject is structured around the investigation of dilemmas and specific provocations, and explores engaging pedagogies for education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program, with the exception of those students enrolled in 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Audit areas of challenge in an educational context 
Locate ‘challenge’ within the larger context of global educational policy and ‘policy travel’ 
Analyse the notion of pedagogical / institutional effectiveness 
Critically analyse policy and discourse around ’challenge’ in contemporary educational contexts 
Critically analyse responses to policy around challenge in contemporary educational contexts
Apply key theoretical perspectives in analysis of challenge and responses to challenge Subject Content What are challenging contexts in contemporary education?
What dilemmas can arise from challenging contexts at the classroom and institutional levels?
Is education a way out of poverty?
How do/can systems respond to challenging contexts?
What are the key features of effective pedagogies for challenging contexts?
What is the role of policy instruments such as ‘data’ in contemporary education, especially in challenging contexts?
What are the roles of expectations and aspirations in contemporary education in challenging contexts?
How can educational sites/pedagogies be engines of change? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 20 minutes+ 10 minutes of questions and discussion 50 N Group Y  Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jennifer Curtis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Educational Leadership, Testamur Major (T134) Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education (1721) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Leadership, Testamur Major (T136) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)