Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7002 Advanced Engineering Project 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301007 Coordinator Pan Hu Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will complete the major engineering project commenced in subject 301006 Advanced Engineering Project 1. The students are expected to develop advanced technical knowledge and skills in their field of study as well as the ability to function effectively as an individual in a team, with the capacity to be a leader or manager.  The students are required to present outcomes using a professional report and an oral presentation. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 7001 Co-requisite(s) ENGR 7013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the theoretical knowledge gained during the course to develop practical and innovative engineering solutions.
Apply the project management principles to completion of an engineering project.
Analyse the importance of client/ end-user consultation and satisfaction and develop engineering communication abilities on good oral presentation and engineering report writing skills.
Implement ethical, social, economic and environmental responsibilities that apply to engineers.
Apply time and financial management in the context of an engineering project.
Apply systems engineering methods for carrying-out systematic research. Subject Content 1. Development of integrated practical and innovative solutions to engineering problems.
2. Application of engineering project management skills.
3. Client/ end-user consultation process and satisfaction assessment.
4. Development of oral and written presentation skills appropriate to an engineer.
5. Evaluation of social, economic and environmental impacts of an engineering project.
6. Application of time and financial management skills.
7. Risk analysis.
8. Development of research skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour online 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes in total with all team members to present 20 N Individual Y  Report 8,000 - 12,000 words per  group (individual student contribution has to be stated) 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)