Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 2010 Perception Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101680 Coordinator John Cass Opens in new window Description This subject examines the fundamental principles underlying human perception and expands upon the sensation and perception content introduced in the foundational psychology subjects. After reviewing the biological basis of sensing and perceiving, we will explore the way this relatively raw information is processed and organised into the complex perceptions of the visual, auditory, olfactory, gustatory and somatosensory systems, which constitute the fundamental basis of our experience of the world. The subject will also examine the history of perceptual theories and the use of psychophysical methods and experimental approaches to the study of perceptual processes School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1016 Equivalent Subjects BEHV 2001 - Biological Psychology and Perceptual Processes Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain  the major neural structures and computational principles associated with human sensation and perception, specifically including visual, auditory, somatosensory, and chemical sensory systems (APAC Graduate Attribute 1.1viii, 1.1xii).
Measure and analyse how the major perceptual systems impact on mental functioning and behaviour using the scientific method (APAC GA 1.1viii,1.3).
Describe and evaluate theories and propositions of aspects of sensory and perceptual processes (APAC GA 1.1i, 1.1vi, 1.1xii,1.3).
Work individually and in a group to complete a Scientific Laboratory Report conforming to American Psychological Association (APA) Guidelines (APAC GA.1.1viii,1.3, 1.5, 1.6) Subject Content Introduction: This topic will introduce perception and sensory processing. It will include the early philosophy of perception, gestalt principles, psychophysics and the importance of biology.
Chemical Senses: This area will introduce you to the structure and function of the chemosensory systems focussing on olfaction and gustation. You will learn about olfactory and gustatory stimuli, receptors and coding. We will look at connections between odour, memory and emotions, and specifically examine the cross-modal interactions of taste and odour (flavour) including hedonics.
Touch: This topic will cover the phenomenology and physiological coding of human somatosensation, including what environmental information is encoded, and how this is represented in the cortex.
Audition: This topic will introduce you to auditory stimuli, physiology, and psychoacoustics. The presented material will examine the perception of sound in the environment and perception of complex sounds including language and music.
Vision: This area will cover a range of visual topics. After an introduction to the visual receptors, neural processing and central processes, you will learn about the perception of colour and the role of attention in vision. We will also look at depth/space perception, binocular vision, recognising objects and gestalt principles. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 500 words 25 N Individual Y  Proposal 1000 words 25 N Individual Y  Portfolio 3 x 100 words 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 3 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Part A: 750 words. Part B: 1250 words. 50 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 3 x 100 words 15 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Wolfe, J.M., Kluender, K.R., Levi, D.M., Bartoshuk, L.M., & Herz, R.S. (2018). Sensation and Perception (5th Edition). Sunderland, M.A.: Sinauer Associates, Inc. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact John Cass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact John Cass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact John Cass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact John Cass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)