Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3007 Cognitive Processes Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101677 Coordinator Michael Gascoigne Opens in new window Description Cognitive Processes is the study of the mental processes that underpin attention, perception, decision-making, language, and memory. Conceptual and research questions include: What are the structures and mechanisms of human memory? What processes underpin acquisition of language, and are the processes similar when we learn a second language? What factors affect attention? How do some people become expert problem solvers? Why do humans make irrational decisions? Contemporary theories will be discussed and evaluated. Investigative research methods including experiments, computer modelling, clinical case studies, and brain imaging are evaluated. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1016 Equivalent Subjects BEHV 3012 - Human Learning and Cognition Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of core concepts of cognition, perception and biological psychology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the major concepts, theoretical perspectives, empirical findings, and historical trends in cognition, information processing, and language (APAC Graduate Attribute 1)
Describe, apply and evaluate the different research methods used by cognitive psychologists (APAC GA 2)
Apply the scientific method to solve problems related to behaviour and mental processes (APAC GA 3)
Write a research proposal on a topic in cognitive psychology (APAC GA 5) Subject Content Attention
Memory
Language
Problem solving and Decision-making
Cognitive Neuroscience Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 2250 words 40 N Individual Y  Quiz Up to 10 questions per week 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1.5 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Michael Gascoigne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michael Gascoigne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Michael Gascoigne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michael Gascoigne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)