Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 1003 Information Systems in Context (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700000 Coordinator Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window Description This subject aims to give students the ability to recognise and explain business information systems with regard to type, function, and purpose, and the frameworks within which these systems are used.  Topics in this subject include computing fundamentals; computer hardware and software; computers and society; use of business application packages - spreadsheets,  word processing, database, graphics; organisational information systems; information systems development and acquisition; data and knowledge management; electronic commerce, internets, extranets; networking; enterprise-wide information systems; the internet and information systems security; privacy, ethics and computer crime. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Systems Analysis and Design Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 7138 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT 7139 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended or 7140 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended – Information Systems must pass LANG 0012 Academic and Professional Communication (WSTC Prep) and INFO 0001 Academic Skills for ICT (WSTC Prep) Equivalent Subjects INFS 1002 - Information Systems in Context Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise and explain an information system with regards to its type, functionality, role and impact;
Recognise and explain the role of management, information system professionals and end users when developing and implementing information systems in a business environment;
Discuss the implications of contemporary issues affecting business information systems;
Identify and explain the structure and business uses of data, information and knowledge banks;
Apply knowledge of common business application packages to present written information at a professional level;
Summarise, analyse and present data collected through research. Subject Content 1. Key Issues in Information Systems, Applications of IS in Business: Fundamentals of IS, General Systems Theory, why businesses need IS, IS for business operations and competitive advantage, Changes in the business world.
2. Information Basics: Data representation and Information management, Data-banks, Technology (Hardware, Software and Communications Technology) as it pertains to effective management of information, the Internet, Intranets and Extranets in business management.
3. Using and Developing IS: Developing business solutions through effective management of information, Managerial decision support through IS, Focus on end-user needs in business IS, Strategic IS Planning, Business Process Redesign, Management of implementation of IS within business.
4. Business Challenges in Management of business globalisation, Security, Privacy and Ethics in business practices.
5. Practical Skills embedded to portfolio activities that will enhance and support students?f searching skills, the ability to write and critically analyse and effectively present findings using the MS packages (Wo Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 15-20 minutes discussion and/or completion of assigned activity in each class (week 2-11) 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 6 Activities 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 5 Activities 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 10 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes presentation 10 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Online Block mode The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 3 hours per week including discussion and completion of assigned activity 40 N Individual   Portfolio Part A: Week 3 (Total 4 hours- 2 hours theory reflection and 2 hours software application) (1,2,5,6) (20%)  Part B Week 4  (Total 4 hours -2 hours theory reflection and 2 hours software application) (20%) (4,5,6) 40 N Individual   Presentation 4 hours (2 hours research on topic, 1 hour preparing PowerPoint slides and 1 hour for recording 5-7 minutes presentation) 20 N Individual Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7163) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Fast Track (7004) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Information Systems (INFS)