Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3025 News Teams Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102063 Coordinator Nadya El Gawley Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the concept surrounding the editorial team process and the culture of the newsroom across all news media. It explores the social and organisational context of news production in commercial, public or community news organisations. It draws upon theory from communication, sociology, psychology, and management to provide a broad understanding of the principles and practices of effective and creative news teams. It critically analyses the structures, processes and techniques of news gathering to enable quality team outcomes. The subject encourages collaborative working relationships and develops students' own practice in a team. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Journalism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 3026 - News Teams and Newsroom Cultures Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Work in a news team to produce work for a range of media and understand news team processes, structures and management in a critical and experiential way
Apply appropriate principles and techniques to the editorial team process in a news production exercise
Outline their own ideas about news team management, and being part of a news team
Apply a critical perspective to the impact of newsroom organisation on the dominant news values expressed in the news product
Construct or model their work (stories) for specific news organisations and understand the organisational context in which news teams operate
Negotiate and function effectively as a team member. Subject Content 1. The subject introduces students to the concepts surrounding the editorial team process and the culture of the newsroom across all news media.
2. It explores the social and organisational context of news production in commercial, public or community news organisations.
3. The subject critically analyses the structures, processes and techniques of newsgathering
4. It will encourage collaborative working relationships and develop the students own practice as team leaders, managers and members. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words or equivalent 45 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2,000 words 45 N Group Y  Participation Not specified 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Nadya El Gawley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Nadya El Gawley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nadya El Gawley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Journalism, Major (0069) Journalism, Minor (0069) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)