Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1014 Experience-based Outdoor Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102206 Coordinator Tonia Gray Opens in new window Description In this subject students connect with the natural world through outdoor adventure activities. Students learn about themselves, others, and the environment through experiential activities. The subject focuses on self-reliance, resiliency, interdependence, managing personal risks, and the value of life-long outdoor recreation for enjoyment, health and well-being. This subject will involve a full day practical field trip in the outdoors as well as scheduled tutorials. The practical field trip is physically demanding whilst also extending students mentally and socially. Given the nature of the bushwalking field trip, participants require a moderate level of personal fitness. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 1005 - Outdoor Recreation Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Reflect on the impact of outdoor education theory including ecological literacy, nature deficit disorder, positive psychology, risk management and adventure programing;
Evaluate the process of experiential learning and its connection to personal growth;
Communicate experiential and theoretical connections between humans and their environment;
Assess individual and group well-being in outdoor activities;
Demonstrate personal and interpersonal capabilities in communication, resilience, self-confidence, teamwork, goal setting, personal autonomy and initiative.
Develop a deeper understanding of Indigenous links to the land and their culture Subject Content 1. Theoretical models of experience-based learning in the outdoors and variations in emphasis developed by key writers in the field;
2. Relationships between experience-based learning in the outdoors and holistic well-being;
3. Participation, reflection and engagement in outdoor adventure education;
4. Sustainability, stewardship and nature deficit disorder;
5. Intra- and interpersonal skill development.
6. Understanding of Indigenous concepts related to connectivity to land Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1000 words 50 N Individual N  Practical 1 x full day field trip S/U Y Group Y  Reflection on field trip 15 minutes 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact  Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Education Studies, Minor (0129) Sport and Recreation (SPRT) Teacher Education (TEAC)