Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7030 Diverse Literacies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102101 Coordinator Louie Liang Opens in new window Description This subject increases students' understandings of the impact of globalisation, new technologies and the diversity of Australian languages and dialects on children’s literacy practices. Students will develop insights into the importance of languages and cultures in children’s identity formation, particularly in relation to the importance of the home languages and/or dialects, for multilingual and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. Contemporary social theories of diversity, difference, literacy and languages learning will be introduced to students and the links between theory and practice will be applied. Students will investigate the literacy practices in diverse family and community contexts and apply literacy-enriched play and pedagogies to extend languages learning and literacy for all children. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7046 - Global Literacies TEAC 1026 - Multiliteracies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Teaching) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the impact of globalisation and new information technologies on literacy and literacy learning.
Explain understandings of theory related to literacy as social, cultural and technological practice.
Discuss the diversity of literacies, languages and dialects in Australia and different approaches to the revival and retention of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and community languages.
Identify the impact of past and present language policies on literacy pedagogies and practices.
Understand the cultural context of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners and the significance of Aboriginal languages and dialects.
Analyse issues of language, culture and identity and their relationship to multicultural education.
Research diverse family literacy practices and children's literacy funds of knowledge.
Apply respect for diverse literacies and understandings of issues of culture, gender, class, inclusion and language in work with children and families.
Select and share texts with children and engage children in critical literacy.
Implement literacy-enriched play that builds on children's family literacies. Subject Content Impact of globalisation and new information technologies and the role of critical literacy on literacy learning. 
Literacy as social, linguistic, cultural, and technological practice and critical literacy. 
Contemporary theories of diversity, and literacy: language, power, gender, ethnicity and class.
Diverse literacies, language policies, practices and texts: Multilingualism in childhood 
Diverse languages and dialects including Aboriginal English; language loss, maintenance, and revival of Indigenous and community languages. 
The role of positionality, self-reflection and reflexivity in identifying biases and assumptions and how they impact practices 
Engaging and communicating with families and communities to build on children’s diverse family literacy practices. 
Selecting diverse literacy resources and engaging children in critical literacy, literacy enriched play and shared book experiences. 
Intercultural communication, multilingual and multicultural education in supporting cultural and linguistic diversity. Inherent Requirements Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 Years / Birth -12 Years) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 3 x 200 word critical reviews of readings and 600 word reflection 25 N Individual Y  Presentation Resource (1000 words or 5 minute multimedia) and a 3 minute presentation to the tutorial group 25 N Group Y  Case Study 2500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisabeth Duursma Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Louie Liang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)