Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3056 Japanese 306: Japanese Popular Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102219 Coordinator Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window Description This subject aims to reinforce the Japanese language in all four skills: speaking, listening, reading and writing, via the medium of Japanese popular culture, e.g. manga, anime, Japanese drama and/or J-pop, by exploring and analysing culturally and linguistically specific issues of the language, e.g. address terms and taking turns. Students will explore natural Japanese text and speech in both casual and formal styles at an advanced level, as well as increase their knowledge and understanding of Japanese popular culture. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Japanese 203 and 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes Communicate in Japanese in a more natural fashion in a variety of situations.
Demonstrate skills in reading and comprehending authentic Japanese materials.
Identify linguistic varieties (e.g. based on gender, status and age) in the Japanese language.
Demonstrate an understanding of non-verbal communication patterns found in the Japanese culture and society. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 10-20 minutes presentation and an essay equivalent to 2,000-3,000 Japanese characters 40 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam UP to 2 hours 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)