Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 6002 Critical Issues for Heritage and Tourism Futures: Assessed Seminars Credit Points 10 Coordinator Joseph Cheer Opens in new window Description In Spring 2024, this subject replaced by TOUR 7006 - Contemporary Issues for Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management. The world in which we live is undergoing rapid change – socially, environmentally, and politically. Responding to such change requires the constant renewal of our knowledge and skills.  This subject explores a range of issues currently facing professionals and researchers working in heritage and tourism management, nationally and internationally. Students who complete this subject are provided an opportunity to deepen their understanding of a chosen issue by preparing and presenting a seminar. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs AND have passed 40 credit points: Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of contemporary issues in tourism and heritage is desirable. Learning Outcomes Assess critical and/or controversial issues facing the tourism and heritage sectors, nationally and internationally.
Develop and express a critical position on an issue related to tourism and/or heritage to stimulate collective and constructive debate.
Communicate an in-depth understanding of an issue using relevant and illustrative case studies.
Organise and present a seminar session. Subject Content Heritage, tourism and climate change.
Heritage, tourism and environmental, social and political context
Heritage, tourism and sustainable futures.
Heritage, tourism and international development.
Heritage, tourism and urban transformations.
Heritage, tourism and Indigenous culture
Heritage, tourism and migration.
Heritage, tourism and the economic context Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minute presentation + 10 Minutes Q&A 20 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Tourism (TOUR)