Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7012 Assessment and Intervention for Science Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102488 Coordinator Karina Mckoy Opens in new window Description The purpose of this subject is for students to be informed of different types of diagnostic, formative, and summative assessment strategies used in primary science contexts.  Examination of assessment methods and resources will help teachers develop a comprehensive philosophy of assessment in primary science.  Students will develop skills in adapting instructional subjects to incorporate a research-based assessment system, become familiar with strategies to analyse assessment data, and design interventions in response to assessment data. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1845 Graduate Certificate in Primary Science Education; 1847 Master of Education (STEM); 1887 Graduate Certificate in Primary STEM Education or 1911 Master of Education. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of classroom assessment practices, features of positive classroom environments, and outcomes of the primary science syllabus is desirable. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify contemporary, research-based diagnostic, formative, and summative assessment strategies specific to science education
Adapt a unit in primary science to incorporate appropriate diagnostic, formative, and summative assessment strategies
Develop assessment strategies for an integrated unit using a scientific context in the primary science curriculum
Explain research-based strategies for utilising assessment data to inform future teaching in primary science
Synthesize information from a set of assessment data and articulate how to respond with future interventions Subject Content 1. Diagnostic assessment strategies in primary science education
2. Formative assessment strategies in primary science education
3. Summative assessment strategies in primary science education
4. Analysis of assessment data in primary science
5. Pedagogical interventions based on assessment data in primary science Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Simulation 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Primary STEM Education (1887) STEM, Testamur Major (T135) Teacher Education (TEAC)