Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5011 HSIE Curriculum 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102869 Coordinator Katherine Hadley Opens in new window Description The subject explores the key concepts and approaches in Human Society and its Environment (HSIE) education. The subject will provide deeper opportunities to engage with inquiry pedagogy. The specifics of the relevant HSIE NSW and Australian syllabus and curriculum documents will be analysed and critiqued. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying HSIE such as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, Civics and Citizenship, sustainability and heritage. Opportunities to engage in site and field studies within HSIE will be a strong focus within the subject. The subject will comprise critical exploration of current research particularly related to the development of pedagogical inquiry and concepts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have a relevant HSIE Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate understanding of HSIE syllabuses and the effect upon implementation of current NSW and Australian educational policies and priorities.
Demonstrate understanding of socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in teaching HSIE including strategies that recognise, promote knowledge and develop cultural awareness of community connection, heritage and diversity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning in HSIE.
Design innovative teaching resources including site and field studies that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching HSIE and include opportunities to develop students’ inquiry skills.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of  sources in teaching lessons and programs. Subject Content What is the nature of the HSIE in the early and middle years of secondary education? How are Civics and Citizenship and sustainability practices part of HSIE? 
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject? 
How can the Key Learning Area of HSIE recognise, promote knowledge and develop cultural awareness of community connection, heritage and diversity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples? 
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject? 
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in HSIE? 
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation? 
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the HSIE when conducting site or field studies? 
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject? 
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject? 
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)? 
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of HSIE?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about HSIE? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2012-2020) HSIE K-10 Syllabuses Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)