Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7048 Understanding Race Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102601 Coordinator Alana Lentin Opens in new window Description What is race? What is racism? How are they related? Why do they continue to shape social, political and economic relations well after the biological concept of race was disproven? What are the links between race and colonialism and in Australia particularly, the invasion and settlement of Aboriginal land? How is race related to property? How do ideas of race become embedded in state institutions and why do they continue to shape disadvantage and inequality? Though race develops differently in different contexts, it is best thought about through relational readings that draw out both the differences but also the similarities between places and times. This subject will draw on race critical and decolonial texts to focus on race as a modern idea that is shaped in the contexts of colonialism, slavery, and persists in post-immigration multicultural societies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify major sociological, literary and cultural approaches to race and racism
Analyse primary texts from the race critical literature
Apply race critical analyses to socio-political and historical events and issues Subject Content Unit content will draw on the following topics in race critical scholarship:
1. Defining the race concept
2. Race and state
3. Race as property
4. Race critical and decolonial epistemologies
5. Postracialism Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation Presentation 15 minutes - Blog post 2000 words in total 50 N Individual Y  Essay 4,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alana Lentin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)