Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2002 Introduction to Leisure and Recreation Theory Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400244 Coordinator Arianne Reis Opens in new window Description Introduction to Leisure and Recreation Theory introduces students to key concepts in leisure and recreation, particularly as they relate to health and well-being. Students will learn about models and theories that assist them in understanding leisure behaviours and recreation practices from various perspectives, but with a particular focus on insights from sociology and psychology. In particular, students are encouraged to identify, articulate, reflect upon, and value leisure in their own lives and the lives of others. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key leisure and recreation theories and how they relate to social inclusion/exclusion and human rights in contemporary society
Identify the historical developments of leisure and recreation in Australia and elsewhere
Critically analyse the socio-cultural factors that influence leisure and recreation behaviour and experiences in contemporary society
Identify the range of leisure services available in Australia and how these services fit within the wider political and social context
Argue the importance of leisure and recreation for individual and population health and well being Subject Content 1. History of Leisure
2. Psychology of Leisure
3. Leisure and Class
4. Sociology of Leisure
5. Leisure Service Delivery Systems
6. Leisure and Well-being
7. Leisure and Human Rights
8. Globalisation of Leisure Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online Debates 4x 400 words each 40 N Individual N  Quizzes 10 x 10 questions 20 N Individual N  Advocacy paper 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Block A Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)