Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2035 Modern Digital Design and Development Credit Points 10 Coordinator Richard Yang Opens in new window Description This subject provides fundamental knowledge and skills development in Digital Manufacturing and Design (DMD) technologies for Advanced Manufacturing, Product Design and Industry 4.0. 

Digital transformation happens throughout the world in Product Development and Design (PDD). Students will engage with digital technologies which stimulate innovative, integrated and sustainable product development processes and workflows from design to manufacturing. 

As part of their engagement with real-world design projects, students will apply their skills to areas such as design, scenario analysis, rapid prototyping and testing for improved manufacturing outcomes. A number of opportunities, such as the WSU Formula SAE Race Car project, will allow students to work alongside industry partners and develop job ready practices for their future careers. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes Develop fundamental knowledge and skills in Digital Manufacturing and Design (DMD) technologies.
Solve a design problem using digital technologies and processes.
Implement appropriate digital design processes and workflows in designing a component for a real-world application.
Discuss the importance of social aspects of Industry 4.0 and digital engineering including economics, ethics, safety and societal impact.
Work collaboratively for a digital design project.
Communicate in a clear, concise manner to a diverse audience in a range of formats, verbal and written, following ethical and academic integrity guidelines. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quizzes x 2 60 minutes  (per Quiz) 30 N Individual N  Log/Workbook 60 minutes (per activity) 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1500 words (including visuals)   And  10 minutes (presentation) 40 Y Group Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Richard Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Richard Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)