Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1053 Applied Physics for Engineers (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ben Kelley Opens in new window Description This subject provides you with an introduction to the fundamentals of engineering physics, tailored for relevance in various engineering contexts. You will master the use of System Internationale (SI) units and engage deeply with core principles spanning from mechanics and thermodynamics to electricity and magnetism. This subject not only equips you with an understanding of the theoretical knowledge of engineering physics, but also places a strong emphasis on the practical application through a series of experiments. You will hone your skills in planning, conducting, and documenting experiments, allowing you to draw meaningful connections between theoretical principles and experimental results. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and apply System Internationale (SI) units relevant to this subject.
Apply engineering physics principles to solve problems in areas including units and vectors, motion, waves, forces, energy, fluid mechanics, electricity, magnetism, and heat.
Plan and conduct experiments on measurements and uncertainties, gravity, friction, standing waves, and spectral line analysis, and document the results.
Compare experimental results to theory considering experimental uncertainties.
Communicate clearly and professionally through written reports, and visual and verbal presentations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2x Quiz, 1 hr each 30 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 1000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes per group 10 N Group N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)