Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 1007 Financial Accounting Applications Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200111 Coordinator Mamun Billah Opens in new window Description This subject gives students the practical skills necessary to analyse the accounting transactions of an entity, and then be able to measure and record these transactions in a systematic manner for the preparation of simple financial statements. Students learn key accounting concepts such as assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses used in financial reporting. Students produce for example profit and loss statements and balance sheets. Knowledge and skills developed in the subject are foundational to higher level financial and management accounting subjects. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 1005 - Accounting in Context Equivalent Subjects ACCT 1008 - Financial Accounting Applications (WSTC) Learning Outcomes Explain the role and purpose of accounting, accounting processes and systems.
Apply the accounting elements (assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses) and the underlying principles and relationships of the elements for the purpose of periodic financial reporting.
Identify components of the accounting cycle.
Prepare journalising and posting transactions to general and subsidiary ledgers and complete a trial balance.
Prepare financial statements for simple business structures using manual based and computerised accounting software.
Outline the conceptual framework and accounting standards to account for different types of transactions. Subject Content Revision of key prior knowledge
Extension of the accounting cycle and accounting processes
Double entry accounting
Accounting for GST
Transferring information from journal to the ledger
Recording of inventory (perpetual and periodic systems), valuation methods, and depreciation of non-current assets
Trial balance
Bank Reconciliation
Preparation of simple financial statements
Partnership formation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 1,500 words 15 N Individual N  Quiz 60 minutes (per quiz) 20 N Individual N  Practical Equivalent to 1,000 words 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Bachelor of Accounting (2783) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Education Studies - Primary Mathematics Teaching Specialisation, Major (0188) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)