Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7002 Allergic Sciences 1 Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401249 Coordinator Miriam Codarini Opens in new window Description This subject will consist of four online modules dealing with the immunological and clinical aspects of allergic diseases.  These modules will cover basic immunology and fundamental theoretical and clinical concepts underlying Eczema and Contact Dermatitis, Urticaria and Angioedema, and Drug Hypersensitivity Reactions, Insect Allergy and Anaphylaxis.  The purpose of Allergic Sciences 1 is to provide students with sound knowledge of essential immunological principles and common allergic conditions.  Students will use self directed learning to link basic science with clinical understanding, and must attend a written exam at a university approved venue for one of the assessments. School Medicine Discipline Internal Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7790 Allergic Sciences 1 AND LGYA 7791 Allergic Sciences 2 MEDI 7001 Allergic Sciences Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program Graduate Certificate in Allergic Diseases, the Graduate Diploma in Allergic Diseases (exit only) or Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases). Students must be qualified and registered medical practitioners. Assumed Knowledge Must have completed a medical degree (MBBS, MBChB or equivalent qualification) and preferably have previous clinical experience. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the immune mechanisms involved in allergic disease pathogenesis and implications for diagnosis and treatment.
Examine the pathophysiology, epidemiology, clinical presentation and treatment of allergic skin disease, drug and insect allergy, and anaphylaxis.
Consider key aspects of the professional practice required of doctors caring for patients with allergic skin disease, drug and insect allergy, and anaphylaxis including their limitations and referral pathways for complex patients.
Apply critical thinking to assess and manage patients with allergic skin disease, drug and insect allergy, and anaphylaxis.
Acquire evidence based knowledge that informs best clinical allergy practice via online self-directed learning strategies. Subject Content This subject consists of four modules covering:
1. Immunology
2. Eczema and Contact Dermatitis
3. Urticaria and Angioedema
4. Drug Hypersensitivity Reactions, Insect Allergy and Anaphylaxis
These modules explain the immunological mechanisms underpinning allergic diseases and link basic science with clinical aspects of specific allergic diseases to provide students with clinically relevant knowledge.
The learning materials will enable students in the Graduate Diploma in Allergic Diseases (exit only) and Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) to undertake the required clinical experiences. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes  x 4 S/U N Individual Y  Reflection 300 words x 4 (final mark is average of marks for all four reflections) 30 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 60 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Miriam Codarini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Miriam Codarini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Allergic Diseases (4755) Graduate Diploma in Allergic Diseases (exit only) (4754) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Medical Studies (MEDI)