Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 5003 Flexibility Economy Credit Points 10 Description The world is experiencing significant social and economic transformations, creating uncertainty in the future of work and business. Domain knowledge is necessary, but not sufficient for organisational or individual success in new business environments. Success now requires complex adaptability and flexibility skills, and the capacity to influence the behaviour of others to respond to emerging challenges. How can we think outside of an industry or disciplinary framework to enhance human performance under uncertainty? How can we efficiently adjust personal and organizational goals and strategies to meet the pressures of local and global crises and technological innovations? The focus in this subject is on flexibility in practice - the evolution of industry routines and workplace habits, rapid changes in job functions and career profiles, and developing workforce expectations and demands. Key psychological concepts and theories will be integrated with business knowledge to help you develop adaptability and capitalize on flexibility as a strength in your workplace. School Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Evaluate workplace rules, norms, and habits that determine common industry or organisational practices.
Design a strategy to overcome obstacles to flexible practice within an industry or organisational context.
Apply psychological theories of human performance to a workforce change scenario.
Articulate key adaptability and flexibility skills to lead organisational change.
Propose solutions for human and business performance problems in a flexible economy. Subject Content Why do we do what we do? Embedding Flexibility in your Organisation Exploiting the potential to be Flexible Thinking fast and slow Putting the intelligence into Business Intelligence The neuroscience of ‘nimble’ Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 15 minutes 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Certificate in Human and Business Performance (1942)