Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 4019 Building Design Project 2 (Honours) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301102 Coordinator Mary Hardie Opens in new window Description In this subject, students who have a record of superior performance in the program will continue to develop the design solution they created in Building Design Project 1 (Honours) into a fully resolved CAD model suitable for costing, scheduling and contracting. Construction Certificate documentation of professional standard will be generated. Both the complexity level and the number of design constraints will distinguish the project undertaken for this subject from the non-honours stream subject. Diverse stakeholder input on the projects impact will be gathered and assessed. Complex constraints relating to buildability and efficient project delivery will be resolved. Strict budgetary constraints will be imposed and students will be expected to demonstrate a capacity to use lateral thinking and generate creative solutions in response to problematic situations which arise during project delivery but which were unknown at project commencement. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Construction Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) CIVL 4018 Incompatible Subjects BLDG 4002 Building Design Project 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3727 Bachelor of Building Design Management. Assumed Knowledge Students should be familiar with the content from the first three years of the Building Design Management degree, including expertise in CAD, iterative design process and construction technology. Learning Outcomes Select the appropriate construction systems for the building project.
Specify materials, finishes and performance standards expected in the completed building.
Resolve the details of footings/floor/wall and floor/roof junctions and illustrate these with detail drawings to a professional standard.
Construct a fully detailed 3D CAD model with sufficient information for accurate pricing and technical assessment.
Illustrate and present their design management choices in 2D views drawn from a 3D CAD model of professional standard.
Resolve budgetary conflicts, construction safety issues and environmental impacts of construction using innovative design management solutions.
Reflect on feedback relating to a building design and argue persuasively for a design solution that you have generated. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Specification of a critical trade section for the project 2000 words 20 N Individual   Detailed drawings of critical construction junctions 3D CAD model and large scale 2D drawings 30 N Individual   Fully developed building design suitable for Construction Certificate Application 3D CAD model and 2D drawings 40 N Individual   Reflective Report 1000 words 10 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Building (BLDG) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031)