Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3038 Health and Physical Education 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102752 Coordinator Zara Ruggero Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject further builds students’ knowledge and understandings of the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Health and Physical Education K-10 (incorporating Health and Physical Education K-6) with a focus on the personal development and health components. Through an examination of the syllabus, modules and support documents, students will develop the necessary skills to design an effective scope and sequence for K-6 Health and Physical Education (HPE) and develop a program of work suitable for a Year 5 - 6 learner. Assessment and evaluation will be addressed and the need to develop descriptive student profiles relating to student achievement of outcomes will be highlighted. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 2030 AND
TEAC 2058 Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2005 - Personal Development Health Physical Education 1 (AREP) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the central concepts, modes of enquiry and structure of H and PE, including recent theory and practice as relating to key topics of drug education; health education, road safety; and personal development. (Standards 2.1.1, 7.1.1, 7.2.1)
Evaluate the cultural, socio-economic and geographical factors of the health and personal development components of the H and PE syllabus with a specific focus on Aboriginal content. (Standards: 2.1.1, 2.4.1)
Explain the nature and role of H and PE as a discipline for supporting the development of health and wellbeing. (Standards 4.1.1, 4.4.1)
Apply understandings of assessment and students’ learning in Years 5 – 6 within the H and PE key learning area.(Standards 1.5.1, 5.1.1.)
Design a variety of teaching, classroom behaviour and organisational management strategies to cater for a range of diverse learners. (Standards 4.1.1, 4.2.1, 4.3.1, 4.4.1) 
Design learning experiences, lessons and lesson sequences, (Standards 1.1.1, 2.1.1, 2.5.1)
Undertake risk assessments using knowledge of the NSW syllabuses or other curriculum support documentation requirements. (Standards 7.1.1 7.2.1)
Explain the role and value of H and PE in the broader school curriculum, including literacy and. Numeracy in H and PE. (Standards 2.5.1, 3.5.1, 3.6.1) Subject Content Personal identity and how it impacts on our health.
Factors of resilience.
Concepts of health, safety (including road safety) and wellbeing.
Interpersonal skills that enable students to interact effectively and respectfully with others, build and maintain respectful relationships.
Cultural and socio-economic and geographical factors of health including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander specific content.
Drug education and lifestyle choices.
Syllabus delivery and classroom practices that meet Years 5-6 requirements for Health and Physical Education (H and PE).  
Assessment practices for H and PE Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,000 words 60 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Teacher Education (TEAC)