Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7049 Criminal Procedure and Evidence Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201059 Coordinator Francine Feld Opens in new window Description The subject is designed to provide an understanding of the law, the theoretical underpinnings and the underlying policy issues, in the areas of evidence and criminal procedure. This subject deals with principles and stages of civil and criminal procedure in order to comply with the formal requirements for admission to legal practice, themes and theories of procedural law, identification and interpretation of the key legislative provisions and key stakeholders, and techniques of statutory interpretation including comprehension of the interpretation of statute through case law and academic commentary. It is expected that the students will be able to solve hypothetical problem questions through the application of procedural legislation and precedent. School Law Discipline Criminal Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7048 Criminal Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 4004 Criminal Procedure and Evidence Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate theories and rationales underlying the policy and processes of criminal procedure and evidence;
Critique the statutory and common law rules of evidence and criminal procedure as they operate in a practical context in New South Wales;
Assess the circumstances and needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in criminal courts, procedures and processes;
Construct solutions to legal problems that indicate a deep comprehension and critical application of procedural legislation and precedent;
Reflect on the roles and professional responsibilities of legal practitioners in the administration of justice to exercise ethical judgment when undertaking scholarly and legal tasks;
Assess factual, evidentiary and policy issues to construct reasoned, justifiable and logical legal and scholarly arguments. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Throughout semester 10 N Individual Y  Quiz 4 quizzes; 15 minutes each 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2000 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Fiona Hum, Gregor Urbas and Ottavio Quirico, Australian Uniform Evidence Law (Cambridge University Press, 2nd ed, 2022).
	 
NB: Students must have access to a HARD COPY. Students will not be able to access an ebook during the examination. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Francine Feld Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Francine Feld Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Francine Feld Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)