Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2015 Recreational Therapy Process and Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401402 Coordinator Joanne Rodrigues Opens in new window Description Students will be required to complete an 80-hour industry based placement as part of the assessment requirements for this subject.  This subject introduces students to the development, implementation and evaluation of recreational therapy programming. Development and ongoing assessment of programs will be explored through theoretical and practical situations. Students will learn how to adapt recreation and leisure activities for clients with varying abilities and needs and apply recreation therapy models into practice. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA1007 AND
REHA 1008 Equivalent Subjects REHA 2009 Workplace Learning 1 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify and apply the principles of the recreation therapy process 
2. Employ recreational therapy documentation procedures for program planning, evaluation and accountability 
3. Appraise the models and scope of practice of recreational therapy for treatment or program planning 
4. Analyse different activities and tasks to align them to the needs and choices of consumers 
5. Develop a strengths-based treatment program that includes consideration of assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation processes Subject Content 1. Assessment, Planning, Implementation and Evaluation processes with groups
2. Writing goals and objectives
3. Activity analysis
4. Group leadership strategies
5. Risk management
6. Communicating with groups
7. Clinical reasoning and problem-solving
8. Developing participant recreation therapy intervention plans
9. ICF Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 3x Quizzes 60 minutes each  25 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words  35 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words  40 N Individual N  Participation 80 hours field placement S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Nicole Peel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Nicole Peel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Joanne Rodrigues Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Health and Recreation, Minor (0243) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)