Academic Handbook Current Edition PROC 1007 Introduction to Food Science (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700334 Coordinator Grant Boyd Opens in new window Description Food provides sustenance to life, nutrition for good health, enjoyment and cultural identity. Students will  study the history and cultural significance of food and its traditions in Australia and around the world. This subject introduces the basic principles for understanding the science behind food; its composition, chemical, physical and functional characteristics. Fruits and vegetables, cereal, meat and dairy products will be covered, how they are processed and impacts on food quality and nutrition. Current issues will be discussed, such as world food supply, food-borne disease, diet and health, and new trends in food. Students will need to attend the Hawkesbury Campus for Lectures and Practicals. School Science Discipline Food Processing Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PROC 1002 Food Science 1 PROC 1001 Food Science 1 LGYB 8736 Food Science Technology Practicum 11 PROC 1003 Food Science 1 PROC 1005 Introduction to Food Science Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College. Students enrolled in Extended Diploma programs must have passed 40 credit points of preparatory subjects in order to enrol in this subject. Assumed Knowledge An understanding and competence with basic chemical principles including SI units, chemical symbols, formulas and equations, nomenclature, stoichiometry, the mole concept, bonding, molecular shape and polarity, states and properties of matter, thermodynamics, equilibria, acids and bases, pH and electrochemistry. Learning Outcomes Explain the history and cultural significance of different foods around the world.
Discuss current food and nutrition issues including diet and health, new trends in foods, food quality, safe food handling and food borne disease.
Describe the characteristics of food commodities: fruits and vegetables, cereal, dairy and flesh foods, including nutritional value, chemical composition, and functional properties.
Describe basic food processing practises associated with fruit, cereal, dairy and flesh commodities.
Conduct basic food experiments in the food science laboratory and kitchen safely and competently.
Methodically and accurately record data when conducting experiments; and use this data to interpret findings.
Demonstrate communication skills, including report writing and oral presentations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15 -30 mins each 40 N Individual N  Practical 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 mins 20 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Grant Boyd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Diploma in Science (exit only) (7084) Diploma in Science Extended - Medical Science (7120) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)