Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 2015 Mental Health in the Community (Block Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101773 Coordinator Rashid Flewellen Jr Opens in new window Description Mental health service delivery in the community is now the main form of care for people across the lifespan living with mental and emotional disorders. The development of a wider range of pharmacological, psychological and psychosocial treatments has enabled many people to live productively in the community. This subject explores the changes in policy and practice in the development of integrated mental health care and the impact of these changes on the lives of people living with mental illness and their communities. Early intervention, resilience and community capacity building are concepts explored in this subject in terms of mental health and wellbeing. The subject explores these issues with a focus on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities and mental health. School Social Sciences Discipline Community Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7541 - Community Mental Health Services BEHV 2008 - Mental Health in the Community Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed 60 credit points at Level 1. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the theories and discourses underlying contemporary mental health care and treatment
Demonstrate an understanding of and explain major mental health disorders
Argue the importance of early intervention and evidence based treatment and management of mental health disorders
Critically describe the significant policy changes and implications for mental health service delivery in recent years
Recognise the presentation of mental illness and emotional disorders in clients in community settings
Demonstrate understanding of the issues and challenges for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities of mental health services and treatment Subject Content Mental health: contemporary theories, policy and practice issues
Mental health literacy
Legal aspects of mental health practice
Developmental perspectives of mental health
Mental health and the criminal justice system
Psychopharmacological and other interventions in mental illness
Significant mental health illnesses Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Analysis 1,000 words 40% N Individual   Essay 1,500 words 60% N Individual Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)