Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 0003 Critical Thought in Design (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700321 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description Critical Thought in Design provides students with an understanding of the process designers use to structure their thinking and communicate ideas with clients, target audiences, other designers and specialists. The ability to think critically, creatively and independently is essential for success as a designer in generating and communicating innovative design solutions that meet the needs of the client and target audience. The aim of this subject is to provide students with the skills and techniques necessary to become an independent thinker able to research, analyse, argue and communicate effectively with clients. The subject examines a wide range of critical thinking and design, problem-solving methods including problem definition techniques, idea generation, brainstorming, as well as evaluation and analysis skills. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Graphic Arts and Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled at Western Sydney The College Assumed Knowledge Basic written English skills. Learning Outcomes Apply lateral thinking techniques to develop creative responses to project briefs.
Analyse and evaluate concepts, assumptions, explanations, arguments and solutions to design problems.
Identify, correct and prevent errors in thinking and problem solving in design processes.
Demonstrate critical and analytical skills in the interpretation and appreciation of works of design.
Apply design thinking techniques while conceiving, communicating and presenting ideas.
Demonstrate design thinking and research strategies within design practice.
Generate ideas and determine solutions using creative thinking methods, and conduct research, anlyse, evalute and communicate rationale for design decisions.
Conduct research, analyse, evaluate and communicate rationale for design decisions. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Equivalent to 600 words 20 N Individual N  Report Equivalent 1000 words plus visual elements 30 N Individual N  Portfolio Equivalent 1500 words plus visual elements  50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Design Extended - Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (7153) Diploma in Design Extended - Visual Communication (7152) Graphic and Design (DESN)