Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1002 Introduction to Physiotherapy Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400906 Coordinator Daniel Thomson Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the concept of physiotherapy as a profession, including regulatory, ethical and legal frameworks underpinning practice within the context of the changing health environment. In addition, students will be introduced to fundamental aspects of physiotherapy practice, including gathering, analysing and problem-solving information through a process of clinical reasoning. Students will also develop practical skills in relation to assessment of movement, patient manual handling and transfers, and patient education regarding gait and use of assistive devices. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the regulatory requirements for physiotherapy in Australia
Describe physiotherapy with respect to its purpose, role and contribution to health care using the International Classification of Functioning framework
Develop sound clinical reasoning commensurate with level of training
Apply basic communication skills to effectively communicate with clients, peers and academic staff in physiotherapy contexts
Perform introductory physiotherapy skills, including movement analysis, manual handling and patient gait training, in a safe and effective manner
Develop critical reflection skills in physiotherapy contexts Subject Content 1. The scope and practice of physiotherapy, including regulatory, ethical and legal frameworks
2. The International Classification of Functioning and physiotherapy
3. Clinical reasoning
4. Effective communication in physiotherapy
5. Critical reflection in physiotherapy
6. Analysis and assessment of human movement
7. Analysis and assessment of gait
8. Clinical case scenarios relevant to physiotherapy practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 10 minutes 30 N Individual N  Practical Exam 20 minutes 30 Y Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y  Professional Task N/A S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Daniel Thomson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)