Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2018 Professional Practice for Engineer Associates (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700118 Coordinator Robert Paluzzano Opens in new window Description This subject will provide the knowledge and skills to enable students to support the achievement of organisational goals through applying knowledge of environment and internal culture.  The subject evaluates planning processes and goal setting to achieve superior performance and compares alternative approaches to motivation of work team members.  Students will consider types of managerial communications and their associated communications channels in achieving best professional practice. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 2009 Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Effectively build, motivate and manage project team.
Apply managerial communication skills and establish effective communication channels to achieve best professional practice.
Make effective oral, written and visual communications.
Describe and promote sustainable engineering.
Manage occupational health and safety. Subject Content This unit provides the engineering students in Australia with the tools and techniques that facilitate the application of the knowledge of engineering management in practical engineering work and study.
The detailed contents are described as following
1. The engineering method
2. Learning to be an engineer
3. Managing occupational health and safety
4. Understanding communication
5. Enabling skills for engineers
6. Information skills
7. Problem-solving tools
8. Sustainable engineering
9. Ethics in engineering
10. Managing engineering projects
11. Developing risk management plan, knowledge management plan and quality plan
12. Communicating information
13. Planning your career Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500-2,000 words 10 N Individual N  Report 2,000-3,000 words 20 N Group N  Quiz 30 minutes each 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)