Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3021 Psychology, Crime and Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102399 Coordinator Alina Ewald Opens in new window Description This subject covers the study and application of a broad range of psychological concepts, principles, theory, and methods that relate to crime and the law. This subject examines psychological processes and human behaviour in relation to the Australian legal and court system and the criminal justice system - and considers their application to real-world contexts through case studies and interactive tutorials. The subject also examines forensic mental health in relation to crime and the law with reference to multi-cultural and Indigenous peoples. Emphasis is placed upon the intersection of evidence-based psychology with criminal  and legal processes. Topics include the role of memory and attention in witness testimony; age, gender culture and the criminal justice system, and forensic interviewing. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs: 1793 Bachelor of Science, Criminology and Psychological Studies, 1834 Bachelor of Psychology, 1711 Bachelor of Social Sciences (Psychology) or 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours). For program 1793 Bachelor of Science, Criminology and Psychological Studies students must have successfully completed 140 credit points and BEHV1016 Psychology: Behavioural Science and MATH2006 Experimental Design and Analysis before enrolling in this subject. For program 1834 Bachelor of Psychology, 1711 Bachelor of Social Sciences (Psychology) & 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) students must have successfully completed BEHV1016 Psychology: Behavioural Science and MATH2006 Experimental Design and Analysis before enrolling in this subject. Assumed Knowledge Introductory knowledge of Psychology, statistics, and research methods. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Assess key concepts, principles, methods, and theory at the interface of psychology, crime, and the law. (APAC Foundational Competencies: 1.1) 2. Critically reflect on major themes relevant to the Australian legal and court system, criminal law, and forensic mental health. (APAC Foundational Competencies: 1.2, 1.3 & 1.6) 3. Analyse examples from the criminal justice system and apply psychological concepts, principles, methods, and theory to these. (APAC Foundational Competencies: 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, & 1.6) 4. Formulate an argument surrounding key issues and topics related to psychology, crime and the law using APA structure and formatting conventions. (APAC Foundational Competencies: 1.1. & 1.3) 5. Articulate the key factors associated with criminal justice proceedings and trial outcomes. (APAC Foundational Competencies:1.1, 1.3, 1.6) 6. Evaluate the nature and history of the extensive interaction between psychology, crime, and the law. (APAC Foundational Competencies: 1. & 1.2) Subject Content 1 - Introduction to Psychology, Crime and Law 2 - Criminal Law, Australian Legal and Court System 3 - Psychological Processes: Cognition - Attitudinal Biases, Decision Making and Social Cognition 4 - Psychological Processes: Memory - Eyewitness, False and Implanted Memories 5 - Psychological Processes: Behaviour - Deception and Lies Detection 6 - Psychological Processes: Behaviour - Juror Selection and Juror Decisions 7 - Criminal Justice System. Indigenous Australians 8 - Criminal Justice System. Youth, Gender, Cultural Differences 9 - Introduction to Forensic Psychology 10 - Forensic Mental Health: Developmental, Social, Environmental Risk Factors 11 - Forensic Interviews and Risk Assessment 12 - Forensic Risk Management and Interventions 13 - Summary and Reflections Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2 x (3-5 minute) Reflective Videos 30 N Individual N  Critical Review 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 2000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Alina Ewald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Psychology Extension, Minor (0186)