Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 6005 Applied Project in Neuromorphic Engineering (Part-time) Credit Points 40 Coordinator Bharath Ramesh Opens in new window Description This 40-credit point year-long subject over two semesters (20 credit points each semester) provides a capstone experience to students enrolled in the Master of Applied Neuromorphic Engineering (in the part-time offering). Students work on an industry-oriented project that has a practical application and outcome. Having the intention to go into industry, this subject provides opportunities for students to explore a relevant problem that can be completed in one year. Students will gain valuable experience and industry insights. School Graduate Research School Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFO 7001 - Advanced Machine Learning
ELEC 6003 - Neuromorphic Accelerators
COMP 6001 - Neuromorphic Algorithms and Computation
COMP 6002 - Neuromorphic Sensing Equivalent Subjects ELEC 6001 - Applied Project in Neuromorphic Engineering Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 8124 Master of Applied Neuromorphic Engineering. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Propose a feasible project plan in Neuromorphic Engineering
Appraise new opportunities in Neuromorphic Engineering with creativity and initiative
Systematically and critically analyse data and information sources that are related to the identified industry-oriented problem aiming to enhance the capabilities of the neuromorphic system
Effectively communicate a novel solution and its potential to both specialist and non-specialist audiences by utilising a variety of multimedia formats that fit the purpose 
Execute an industry-oriented project with practical application and outcomes in the area of Neuromorphic Engineering Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 5 N Individual N  Portfolio 2,000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 4,000 words or equivalent 50 Y Individual Y  Proposal 5 mins or 1,200 words (or equivalency) 15 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bharath Ramesh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bharath Ramesh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Master of Applied Neuromorphic Engineering (8124)