Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2057 Tourism in Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101598 Coordinator Felicity Picken Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject replaced by TOUR 2004 - Tourism and Festivals in Society. In this subject students approach tourism as a cultural and social phenomenon and tourism industries, tourist behaviour, the tourist experience and tourism impacts are examined through a socio-cultural lens. Considering tourism as an agent of social change, the subject explores the interplay between tourism, mobility and globalisation, tourism and development, and tourism and world events.  The subject will also unpack some of the common motivations for leisure travel, explore the role of tourism in everyday life, and examine the interconnections between the media, consumer culture, visual culture and the tourist experience. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1046 - Tourism in Society (UWSC) LGYA 1264 - Tourism in Contemporary Society LGYB 8188 - Tourism Issues and Change Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Summarize the various theoretical platforms used in a socio-cultural study of tourism (eg theories of authenticity, modernity/post-modernity, globalisation, identity etc.)
Describe the relationships between tourism and the content areas under study (eg commodity culture, visual culture, media culture etc.)
Apply theoretical understandings to contemporary tourism issues
Demonstrate an understanding of the key concepts taught in this unit Subject Content Tourism and contemporary society: an introduction
Desire, the ?edream of difference?f and journeying to ?eotherness?f
Tourism and the question of authenticity
Tourist attractions as a socio-cultural process
Tourism and visual culture: the tourist gaze
Commodification, commodity culture and tourism
Media cultures and tourism (Print, TV, Film, Digital)
Tourism and developing countries ? selected case-studies
Diaspora, multi-culturalism, postcoloniality and tourism
Tourism and international politics (e.g. natural and human disasters, war, terrorism, diseases and climate change) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 questions per quiz 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Tourism (TOUR)