Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 5001 Law of Employment Credit Points 10 Coordinator Sandy Noakes Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the law that regulates individual aspects of employment relationships including the contract of employment. It aims to place an examination of the development, nature and scope of relevant legal principles in the context of the key features of the contemporary Australian labour market. Students will further develop essential problem solving and professional communication skills to enhance high level professional practice, including the experience of First Nations peoples. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7047 Contracts or LAWS 7078 Principles of Private Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3046 Law of Employment Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate law program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Examine the institutional and regulatory framework that govern the employment relationship in Australia.
Critically analyse the law of employment from contemporary and historical perspectives within an economic and social context, including the specific experience of First Nations workers.
Identify and negotiate solutions to legal employment problems.
Develop critically informed analysis of employment related management strategies. Subject Content The way law governs individual relationships in the labour market, including the specific experience of First Nations workers
The different forms of employment relationships and how to distinguish them
The content of the contract of employment including the duties implied at common law
Termination and remedies at common law
Termination and remedies under statute, including unfair dismissal
Some selected aspects of statutory regulation of employment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Weekly across semester-online, plus one in-class quiz of 30 minutes duration 40 N Individual N  Presentation 2 hours (expert panel presentation in seminar) 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 3000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Issues in Construction Law, minor (0345) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)