Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3046 Engaging Pedagogies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102819 Coordinator Mary Southall Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the evidence basis and critical practice of effective pedagogy. It considers coherent and deliberate planning and sequencing of tasks and lessons including curriculum-aligned learning outcomes, assessment and feedback to support student engagement and mastery. It critically explores the use of responsive pedagogies for teaching, including explicit teaching, modelling and scaffolding. It evaluates the application of digital technologies and strategies for effective teaching. It challenges students to inquire and reflect upon contemporary issues that affect learning and teaching in classrooms, including working with students from low socio-economic backgrounds, culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) students, students who have English as an additional language or dialect (EALD), Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners, and students from diverse religious backgrounds. It enables students to investigate and consider a range of contemporary pedagogical approaches to facilitate substantive student engagement, and relate these to educational philosophy and contemporary learning theories. There are opportunities to consider the Quality Teaching Model and the Fair Go pedagogical model as frameworks that support student retention of information, engagement and connection to learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education and have successfully completed 160 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate effective planning and sequencing of tasks to become increasingly challenging for students to support mastery. 
Demonstrate understanding of explicit teaching, modelling and scaffolding practices that support student learning.
Apply evidence-based assessment and feedback practices to promote student learning.
Uses digital technologies and strategies for effective teaching.
Critically evaluate the effectiveness of responsive pedagogies in promoting student engagement and learning. 
Critically reflects on how effective pedagogical models such as Quality Teaching Model and Fair Go Pedagogical frameworks supports student learning, inclusion and engagement Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 3-4 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 800 words + original and revised  lesson plans attached 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)