Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7022 Global Criminology and Human Rights Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102200 Coordinator Stephen Tomsen Opens in new window Description Global criminology is concerned with the process of respecting and fostering ideals of justice, the rule of law and human rights in an expanding range of transnational and domestic locations. These include stable, divided and post-conflict societies that are variously dealing with issues of discrimination, exploitation, insecurity and violence via international agreements, judicial and political means. The global development of justice initiatives has challenged the traditional criminological concern with individual offenders prosecuted by the sovereign nation state acting on behalf of a sole victim. In this subject students will gain a critical understanding of theories and concepts of global criminology, detail of the key aspects and uses of international criminal law, and the potential of alternative modes of attaining social justice. Case studies from around the globe will be analysed along with an emphasis placed on assessing the significance of issues, rights and justice reforms in developing regions. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate degree in criminology, criminal justice or a related social science area, or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key terms and issues in global criminology;
Distinguish theories of global criminology and globalisation;
Assess key literature and research evidence demonstrating a critical understanding of policy implications;
Design and successfully complete a research project in International Criminology. Subject Content Theory and scope of global criminology
State crimes and legal liability
Transitional justice
The globalisation of law and human rights
Victimology and international victim rights
Crime, Human Rights and the UN
Gender and international justice
Health and human security
Human rights and worker exploitation
Criminalisation versus protection of refugees
Strengths and weaknesses of international criminal justice (the ICC)
Justice initiatives in developing regions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Opinion Piece (Op-ed) 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Book Review 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Applied Project: Research project 3,000 words 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)