Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 3018 Hydrogeology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301397 Coordinator Ataur Rahman Opens in new window Description This subject covers principles of hydrogeology. It contains concepts related to occurrence of groundwater, groundwater movement, groundwater hydraulics, water wells, quality of groundwater, groundwater modelling and groundwater management. The objectives of this subject are to enable students to learn the concept of groundwater and apply the learnt concepts in solving groundwater problems in engineering practice. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Water and Sanitary Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CIVL 2003 Equivalent Subjects EART 3004 - Hydrogeology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply fundamental knowledge of groundwater movement, groundwater hydraulics and water wells to solve hydrogeological problems
Apply groundwater quality modelling techniques
Evaluate groundwater pollution and management problems
Analyse groundwater modelling and exploration techniques
Evaluate current Australian codes and software to solve groundwater problems
Critically evaluate current literature to benchmark recent problems and developments in groundwater engineering practice
Design sustainable groundwater engineering projects Subject Content 1. Occurrence of groundwater
2. Groundwater movement
3. Groundwater and well hydraulics
4. Water wells
5. Groundwater levels and environmental influences
6. Quality of groundwater
7. Pollution of groundwater
8. Management of groundwater
9. Groundwater modelling
10. Groundwater investigation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Report 2,500 words 25 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 55 N Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ataur Rahman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ataur Rahman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ataur Rahman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Geotechnical, Concentration (0117) Geotechnical, Minor (0117) Water and Environment, Concentration (0118) ​Water and Environment, Minor (0118)