Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7013 Masters Project Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102255 Coordinator Kate Fagan Opens in new window Description The Masters Project is the culmination of the Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing. Students will build up to being able to complete a long written project. For many students this will be a creative project (creative writing, or related media including music). This involves both the creative work (normally 11,000 words) along with an 'exegesis' that offers a critical overview of the ideas within it (4,000 words). Other students might choose to write a long critical essay in literary studies (15,000 words). There is no class work; rather, students work individually with a supervisor with significant expertise in the area in researching and writing their Project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 1660 - Masters Project Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 80 credit points in the MA in Literature and Creative Writing or submit equivalent approved academic credit. Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have foundational knowledge of marketing theory and practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically read and review research literature in the field of their research
Compile a literature review of the field of their research
Organise and evaluate research material relevant to their project
Compose and present research thesis or creative project with research component. Subject Content - design A Critical or Creative Project with exegesis
- Compose long research essay or Creative Project with exegesis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 15,000 maximum. In the case of creative work, the word length might vary depending on the creative form used with an exegesis of at a maximum of 4,000 words 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Online Subject Contact Kate Fagan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Online Subject Contact Kate Fagan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)