Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 7025 Women's Health in Chinese Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401132 Coordinator Yu-Ting Sun Opens in new window Description This subject will enable practitioners to extend their understanding of Chinese Medicine management of a range of women's health conditions. The clinical focus of this subject is on the integration of Chinese Medicine and conventional therapies in the treatment of disorders of the menstrual cycle, obstetric disorders, fertility, menopause and breast disease. School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects CMPL 7026 - Women’s Health in Chinese Medicine 1 AND CMPL 7027 - Women’s Health in Chinese Medicine 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4716 Master of Chinese Medicine or 4795 Master of Chinese Medicine(or 4675 Master of Health Science (Traditional Chinese Medicine) and/or 4678 Master of Health Science (Acupuncture). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe symptoms and signs of and diagnose a range of specific gynaecological and obstetric diseases and syndromes
Be familiar with the range of medical diagnostic tests commonly used in western medicine investigations of gynaecological and obstetric disorders
Apply skills in application of integrating TCM and orthodox medicine in the diagnosis and where appropriate, management of gynaecological and obstetric disorders
Analyse and critically examine practice protocols in TCM compared to orthodox management
Articulate the strengths and limitations of acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine in the treatment of particular gynaecological and obstetric diseases
Articulate when to refer for medical advice/treatment and indicate appropriate liaison with gynaecologists, obstetricians and other relevant medical personnel Subject Content 1. Signs & symptoms of gynaecology
2. Signs & symptoms of obstetrics
3. Strengths & limitations of TCM management in gynaecology & obstetrics
4. Referring to Western medicine practitioners: who, when, how, why
5. Commonly used western medical diagnostic tests - hormone tests, laparoscopy, ultrasound, and sperm tests relevant to women?fs conditions
6. Integration of TCM and orthodox medicine in diagnosis and management of specific gynaecological and obstetric disorders including:
- menstrual-related disorders
- menopausal disorders
- breast disorders
- obstetric-related conditions and applications - Prenatal support, birth assistance, Postnatal care
- Infertility (both female and Male Infertility)
7. Impact of lifestyle and social role on women?fs health Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Critical Review Minimum of 6 online posts with substantial content to fellow students in relation to online discussion topics* 10 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Short Answer 20 minutes on each workshop  20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Yu-Ting Sun Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Complementary Therapies (CMPL) Graduate Diploma in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4717) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795)