Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 2009 Professional Development and Work Experience Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400903 Coordinator Chloe Taylor Opens in new window Description Experience in the field of study is an essential ingredient in marketing an individual for employment and often for professional memberships. Professional Practice provides students with an opportunity to observe and assist Sport & Exercise Science practitioners in action and to learn in a practical hands on setting. Students will have the opportunity to see how knowledge and skills acquired in lectures and tutorials/laboratories can be applied and also relate theoretical concepts and skills to situations in exercise-related settings. This subject is the first of two subjects which require a work placement which is usually off campus. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) SPRT 1001 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 2006 Equivalent Subjects SPRT 2010 - Professional Practice in Sport Exercise Science 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4658 Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Provide evidence of personal and professional development through observation, experimentation and practice, under the supervision of an experienced practitioner.
Deliver exercise related services effectively and safely in compliance with OH&S, standard operating procedures, and the Exercise and Sport Science Australia (ESSA) code of professional conduct and ethical practice.
Maintain confidential client records of health status, fitness tests, exercise programming, and valid informed consent.
Communicate effectively in written, oral and nonverbal forms.
Understand and critically evaluate the structure and function of a sport or exercise related industry.
Establish additional personal contacts in the exercise industry. Subject Content - Establish contacts within A sport/Exercise - related industry
- preparation of A learning Contract through Negotiation with An agency supervisor
- 60 hours placement within the industry of sport and exercise science at an approved agency under the guidance of an approved supervisor Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement. Students must also hold a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation. Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook: ESSA logbook to document hours of professional practice 60 hours S/U Y Individual   Contract and Evaluation booklet 14 pages S/U Y Individual   Agency Profile and evaluation 3-4 pages S/U Y Individual   Letter of thanks to supervisor 1 page S/U Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Sport and Recreation (SPRT)