Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2022 Microbiology 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300833 Coordinator Michelle Moffitt Opens in new window Description In this subject students will use an inquiry-based approach to explore the origin and diversity of microorganisms and their significance in the environment, in foods and industry as well as in health and disease.  Students will be introduced to the structure, reproduction, classification, cultivation and enumeration of bacteria, viruses, fungi and protists.  The conditions required for growth and survival of microorganisms will be studied as well as physical and chemical methods of control.  In laboratory classes students will develop skills in culturing and observing microorganisms and in designing experiments to test microbiological concepts.  This subject is a pre-requisite for Microbiology 2 and Level 3 Microbiology subjects. School Science Discipline Microbiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 2023 - Microbiology 1 Incompatible Subjects BIOS 2015 - General Microbiology Restrictions Successful completion of  60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and compare the major groups of microorganisms in terms of their structure, reproduction and techniques for cultivation in the laboratory.
Describe and discuss the factors that favour growth and survival of microorganisms
Explain the key roles of microorganisms in the environment, health and industry.
Use knowledge of microorganisms to ensure their appropriate control in public sanitisation, food and environmental industries and treatment of human infection with antibiotics
Conduct basic investigations in microbiology within Workplace Health and Safety guidelines and using techniques such as aseptic technique, microscopy, culturing and enumeration and interpret the data.
Design, perform, critically evaluate and report an experiment in microbiology using the scientific method.
Work effectively in a group to design and perform experiments.
Communicate microbiology concepts in oral and written form. Subject Content The history and scope of microbiology
Evolution, diversity and significance of microorganisms and their classification and identification
Structure, function and reproduction of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms and viruses
Microbial nutrition and growth
Methods used to control microbial growth
Principles of scientific method and experimental design to solve problems in microbiology
Techniques for observing, growing and enumerating microorganisms Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1 hour 15 N Individual N  Poster One page 10 N Group N  Report 600 words 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Michelle Moffitt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Michelle Moffitt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hybrid Subject Contact Michelle Moffitt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michelle Moffitt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Infectious Diseases, Minor (0231) Microbiology, Minor (0105) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)