Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7051 Inclusive Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102149 Coordinator William Nketsia Opens in new window Description Significant reform has occurred over the last three decades with regard to educating individuals with additional needs. This subject explores the history and current position on disability as well as philosophy, policy, legislation, and practice around educating individuals with additional needs internationally.  The research literature examining the benefits and barriers to inclusive education will be analysed.  Students will develop skills of critical review required to evaluate the research in the field. Lastly, the subject addresses the ways in which educational settings can be designed to be more responsive to learners with additional needs and how students can promote inclusion through organisational change. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must successfully complete TEAC 3013 before enrolling in this subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary); 1720 Master of Inclusive Education; 1721 Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education; 1726 Master of Education (Leadership); 1847 Master of Education (STEM); 1911 Master of Education; 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary); 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary). Students in program 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must have successfully completed 240cps before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically reflect upon social change in relation to the learning and teaching of learners with additional needs.
Apply current inclusive education research, legislation, educational policies, Work Health & Safety and risk assessment within educational settings.
Critically analyse the barriers to, and benefits of inclusion from the perspective of multiple stakeholders.
Critically analyse the ways in which educational settings can be designed to be more inclusive of learners with additional needs.
Differentiate curricula and adapt environments to promote authentic learning for all individuals in the setting.
Implement learning as a social process determined by particular values and ideologies.
Reflect on personal and professional values, practices, and skills to effect positive change in learning environments.
Examine and apply action research methodology to improve the strategies, practices and knowledge of inclusive environments. Subject Content Historical, current and future perspective on advocacy, social change, terminology, attitudes  
Legislation and policies including a worldwide perspective (e.g. NSW anti-discrimination, DDA, Standards, WHS, Every Student, Every School, Early Years Learning Framework, National Partnerships)  
Introduction of models and concepts of adjustments and accommodations: e.g. M2ECCA, Loreman’s Seven Pillars, UDL, Bronfenbrenner’s ecological model  
Role of personnel and stake holders overtime  
Benefits and barriers: labelling, language and disability e.g. barriers, attitudes, collaboration, support – evidence based and empirical studies 
Identifying and critiquing school/organisational climate and how it supports inclusion, or otherwise. 
Reflection on role and capacity to act as agents of social change within the context of the organisation and learning environments. 
Action research methodology. Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to vUWS Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual N  Case Study 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education (1721) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Inclusive Education, Minor (0359) Master of Education (1911) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)