Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2065 Self and Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102788 Coordinator Helena Onnudottir Opens in new window Description This core theory subject for sociology majors introduces students to traditional and contemporary debates in social thought and provides tools for sociological analysis. The subject outlines the development of  sociological thought in the context of changing  social realities and relations between the individual and society, with a particular focus on the formation of the Self. A number of theorists and theoretical areas are addressed, spanning over 150 years of evolving sociological analysis. This enables students to better grasp the relation between theory and application, the diversity of sociological analysis, as well as providing the capacity to think across a number of different sociological schools of thought. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects HUMN 3071 - Self and Society Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe traditional and contemporary sociological debates on the formation of the self.
Outline the notion of agency, and critically evaluate the relations between the individual and society.
Apply major theories and theorists in sociology and social thought.
Demonstrate a critical, reflexive stance on classical and contemporary sociology in written form.
Analyse a real-life social issue through a sociological lens.
Compare and contrast different schools of sociological thinking. Subject Content Introduction: Relation between the Self and Society
Classical sociologists: from Tradition to Modernity
Modernity 2: Late, Post- and Liquid Modernity
Consciousness and Identity
Values and Critical Theory: The Critique of Instrumental Reasoning and Reification
Value Freedom, Value Relevance and Political Commitment in Sociology
The Political Value Commitments of Sociologists and the Philosophical Justification
The Sociological Imagination and Civic Ethno methods
The Sociological Imagination and Political Strategy
'Key Sociological Thinkers' Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation minimum 200 words for postings (total for all eight)
300 words for summary 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Helena Onnudottir Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Helena Onnudottir Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Sociology, Major (0030) Sociology, Minor (0030) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)