Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3019 Hospitality Management Applied Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200561 Coordinator Bruce Cameron Opens in new window Description Students studying Hospitality Management Applied Project may have the opportunity to undertake an international field trip to experience the hospitality industry from an international perspective.  This subject provides students a unique opportunity to integrate knowledge gained from operational and theoretical perspectives of hospitality studies into application in an engaged research project in hospitality management.  Students will engage in comprehensive projects which bring together real world industry problems and hospitality theory. School Business Discipline Hospitality Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 2036 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 4386 - Tourism and Hospitality Research Project Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4813 - Sport Management Applied Project Assumed Knowledge This is an advanced subject. Students are expected to have gained an introductory level of knowledge in hospitality management. Learning Outcomes Display an ability to integrate action and theory (prior learning) through industry and industry related projects;
Develop suggestions and recommendations in response to contemporary hospitality industry based problems;
Apply a team based approach to real world problem solving within a hospitality context;
Reflect on the process and outcomes of participating with an industry partner on a project with industry applicable outcomes; OR
Reflect on an international hospitality environment. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1250 words 25 N Individual Y  Report Up to 4000 words 50 N Group Y  Reflection 1250 words 25 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)