Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3022 Media Memory Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101931 Coordinator Adam Daniel Opens in new window Description Media memory is now a critical field of study in journalism, advertising, visual communication and media. The media builds local, national and transnational identities through the representation of the past. Media industries such as advertising rely upon collective memories to design campaigns in order to reach particular audiences. Journalists increasingly 'assemble' stories from digital archives, recombining similar or related events from the past to build stories and features of the present. Individuals increasingly contribute to news events through their own 'witnessing' of events, capturing and sharing material using mobile and social media. This subject addresses these processes by providing a brief history and overview of approaches to thinking about media and memory, in the context of the significance of media convergence and digital memory within contemporary media ecologies. The subject provides students with a series of case studies that approach the memory of particular events, drawing on examples from advertising, public relations, visual communication, animation, film, broadcasting and journalism. Students develop a media research project that engages with the material presented in the subject. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 3031 - Researching Media Audiences Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points at Level 1 Assumed Knowledge Knowledge gained from completion of Bachelor of Communication Years 2 and 3 major subjects. Learning Outcomes Analyse and evaluate different conceptualizations of media memory
Assess and critique the variety of contexts and frameworks that can be used to understand the complexities of the relationships between media environments and consumers
Examine the variety of methods for researching media memory and identify their use in a major project Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 2-5 minutes  10 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2,000 words or visual/written equivalent 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words  20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Adam Daniel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Adam Daniel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Adam Daniel Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1736) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)