Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3039 Food: A Cultural History Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102305 Coordinator Gregory Barton Opens in new window Description The modern world seems obsessed by food. This subject will look at the historical development of sources of food, from archaeological evidence of the earliest human meals through the emergence of agriculture and its scientific modifications to the physical and cultural evidence of technological changes in methods of preservation, preparation, cooking and eating various foods. We will examine the globalisation of food and the varieties of historical cuisines around the world. Food is also integral to our social, religious and cultural lives and the subject will investigate the historical origins of some of these customs. Students will have the opportunity to range across time and place (through readings, recipes and field trips) to explore foods that are part of their cultural heritage - or feasts that they wish they could have eaten from centuries long past. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points in the currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify a selection of places and objects relating to food production and eating in global history¬¬
Explain the historical and cultural significance of certain foods
Investigate the historical and cultural origins of a particular dish (recipe)
Construct an evidence based argument or narrative of the results of an investigation into the historical and cultural factors associated with particular foods. Subject Content Content will include a selection from the following topics: Archaeological evidence of food origins and cooking methods 
Trade and wealth - salt, pepper, sugar, spices 
Plants on the move 
Keeping it longer - air dried to freeze dried 
Pots, Pans and Microwaves 
Fingers, forks or chopsticks 
Indigenous Australian foods 
Australian colonial eating 
Portable foods – take-aways ancient and modern 
Rations - convicts, military and the home front 
Food, health and healing 
Religious practice and foods 
Recipes, measurements and instruction manuals 
Class and custom - manners, etiquette and tradition 
Upstairs, downstairs - kitchens great and small 
Food Wars 
Global cuisine traditions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 1 written assignment and presentation, total 800 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz Three quizzes, total 800 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)