Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7020 Practice of Obstetric and Gynecological (O&G) Sonography 2 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Catherine Robinson Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will continue to develop their image acquisition, optimisation and measurement skills in O&G sonography. They will learn to perform a transvaginal examination to assess the gravid and non-gravid female pelvis. Critique of scanning protocols will allow students to deliver sonographic examinations that address a clinical indication. Students will investigate methods for conveying clinical information and maintaining patient confidentiality and privacy. An applied understanding of medical ethics, workplace health and safety, and reflection frameworks will enhance the provision of high-quality patient care. The subject, which includes a work-integrated learning component, will ensure the consolidation of foundational skills, knowledge and attributes. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7019 - Practice of Obstetric and Gynecological (OG) Sonography 1 Co-requisite(s) RADI 6001 - Pathophysiology in Diagnostic Ultrasound Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4802 - Graduate Diploma in Obstetric and Gynecological Sonography. Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy, physiology and mathematics Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Appraise acquisition, optimisation and measurement techniques to achieve diagnostic sonographic images
2. Conduct ultrasound assessment of the female pelvis using transabdominal and transvaginal approaches to provide diagnostic images
3. Utilise appropriate scanning protocols for differentiating normal from abnormal features in O&G examinations, taking into consideration clinical indications and patient needs
4. Demonstrate knowledge of ethical considerations in the provision of patient care, respecting cultural and religious differences
5. Apply workplace health and safety practices in the clinical environment, including the use of personal protective equipment, infection control and safe handling of equipment
6. Utilise a reflective cycle framework to document clinical experiences and develop reflective skills Subject Content Module 1: Sonographic Practice 2 
1. Transvaginal imaging
2. Imaging the cervix and placenta Module 2: Professional and Ethical Practice 2
1. Legal and ethical practice I
2. Legal and ethical practice II
3. Sonographer work health and safety responsibilities
4. Feedback and reflection Module 3: Speciality Knowledge and Imaging Skills 2
1. First trimester fetal anatomy
2. Imaging in second trimester
3. Fetal growth and wellbeing
4. Obstetric Dopplers
5. Variations of the cervix and placenta
6. Assessment of the ovaries and adnexa Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the O&G ultrasonography course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in states other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be competed if, and when required). Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Evaluate, classify and discuss two cases 25 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 400 entries including quality and reflective learning activities S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Catherine Robinson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Obstetric and Gynecological Sonography (4802) Radiography (RADI)