Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3070 Strategic Sport Leadership Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200998 Coordinator Michelle O'Shea Opens in new window Description In contemporary sport organisations and contexts, sport practitioners require an in-depth understanding of strategic leadership processes and practices. To respond to sport’s ongoing professionalisation, globalisation, demographic changes and emerging consumer expectations, sport managers and government policy makers require knowledge and skills which will allow them to navigate and successfully manage these changes. Students will develop knowledge and skills in areas such as policy development and implementation, sport governance, strategic planning, executive leadership and change management processes and practices. Learning will be applied across diverse sport contexts including high performance and community sport with a focus on sport for development. Students’ leadership knowledge and skills will be showcased through a sport leadership, governance and integrity portfolio. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 3016 - Sport Management Planning and Development Assumed Knowledge An introductory level of knowledge in sport management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply philosophical, political, and economic rationales for government involvement in the development of sport
Critically evaluate sport organisation policy, and strategic management theories
Analyse internal and external ethical, environmental, stakeholder, legislative and technological issues shaping strategic management in sport organisations and allied policy contexts
Evaluate current sport organisation/agency strategic management processes, practices and policy implementation
Apply strategic management principles in sport organisations Subject Content Leadership Theory and Practice 
Leadership Philosophy around sport management and leadership
Government Systems in Sport, domestically and internationally
Sport Policy and Planning within a public policy context
Sport Governance
Sport Integrity, ethical frameworks, policy and practice
Strategic Leadership in Sport
The future for sport leadership challenges and innovation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 2500 words 30 N Group Y  Portfolio 2000 words equivalency 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts - Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michelle O'Shea Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Business and Management (BUSM) Sport Development, Minor (0254) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303)