Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7048 Advanced Imaging Research Project Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401330 Coordinator James Nol Opens in new window Description In 2021 this subject replaced by 401467 - Medical Research Project (PG). This subject is an essential part of the final year of the Masters of Advanced Imaging (MRI). It will consolidate and build on the students' knowledge and skills gained in prior subjects. Students will design and conduct a research project from an area of inqury relevant to Adavnced Imaging - MRI. Successful completion of the subject results in the composition of a report, and in an oral presentationwhich will include details of the aims, methods, results and conclusions of the project. School Medicine Discipline Radiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4767 Master Advanced Imaging (MRI) and have successfully completed 100 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Evaluate the theories and real-life issues relevant to the use of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in Australia.
2. Conduct a research project in the field of MRI.
3. Communicate the results of the project to peers and other health professionals in oral and written forms in a professional manner.
4. Reflect on own learning and professional development needs in MRI.
5. Effectively employ technology and self-directed learning strategies to enhance evidence-based practice and patient safety in the field of medical Imaging and MRI. Subject Content 1. Research Proposal
2. Ethics
3. Research Protocol and Design
4. Data collection and measurement
5. Data analysis
6. Project Report Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 1,000 words 10 N Individual Y  Thesis 15 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Thesis 4,000 words excluding references 65 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) (4767) Medical Studies (MEDI)