Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3017 Occupational Health and Safety Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300919 Coordinator Sadegh Niaziesfyani Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an essential working knowledge of occupational health and safety (OHS), work health and safety (WHS) legislation and risk management required which is a requirement for graduate employment across a broad range of workplaces and industries. The subject provides a foundation in the principles and practice of hazard identification and risk management, including an introduction to specific workplace hazards such as; moving and fixed plant, electrical, biomechanical (ergonomic), gravitational (slips, trips and falls), manual handling.  Students will also explore the chemical, biological and physical hazards that may be encountered in a variety of graduate employment industries, as well as the management of health and safety hazards in relation to current WHS legislation, Codes of Practices and Australian and International Standards. School Science Discipline Occupational Health and Safety Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 3016 - Occupational Health and Safety Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Research information on specific occupational health, safety and welfare issues from relevant scholarly, government and industry sources.
Explain the underlying principles and issues of occupational health, safety and welfare.
Identify and discuss the management of specific occupational health & safety problems within specified industries and workplaces.
Engage with the substantive portions of the NSW Work Health & Safety Act, 2011 and the NSW Work Health & Safety Regulation, 2011.
Apply federal work health & safety and state legislation and recommend workplace procedures and practices to ensure compliance with this legislation.
Outline the principles involved in the identification and control of workplace hazards and risks and apply these to a specified industry.
Undertake a workplace safety inspection.
Develop an occupational health and safety policy, programme and report for a specified workplace.
Discuss the underlying principles of occupational health and safety.
Research information on specific health and safety issues from relevant scholarly, government and industry sources.
Apply the framework of Australian work health and safety legislation in select industries/workplaces.
Interpret the principles of hazard identification and risk management within specific industries and workplaces; and
Investigate and prepare a risk management plan for a selected health and safety hazards Subject Content 1. Principles of health, safety and welfare
2. Researching contemporary industrial occupational health and safety issues
3. The management of specific occupational health & safety problems within specified industry sectors
4. Workplace risk assessment, hazard identification and hazard management measures
5. The application of hazard management to resolve identified workplace hazards
6. Federal Work Health & Safety legislation and workplace procedures and practices to ensure compliance with this legislation
7. Principles of prevention and management of workplace hazards
8. Industry-specific occupational health and safety policies and programs
1. Introduction to practice of occupational health and safety both locally and internationally.
2. Framework of work health and safety legislation.
3. Identifying hazards and managing risk (identification, assessment, control and review).
4. Collection and management of health and safety data.
5. Health and safety culture.
6. Topical issues in work health and safety. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 (+/-20%) 30 N Group N  Report 2000 (+/-20%) 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes maximum 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Maggie Davidson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Public Health (PUBH)