Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3012 Arabic 303: Advanced Writing Skills Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100049 Coordinator Nour Kamleh Opens in new window Description This subject is aimed at those who have successfully finished LANG 2006 - Arabic 202, or have an advanced speaking and writing proficiency in Modern Standard Arabic. It is one of the obligatory subjects for students intending to graduate with Arabic as a major or minor. It seeks to develop the writing skills to prepare students to make professional use of the language, and it is particularly recommended for those who wish to involve themselves in areas such as language teaching and translation. Students will be introduced to a full range of text types and language purposes. They will be guided to analyse, interpret and evaluate passages provided, and will be encouraged to extend their ability by experimenting with a variety of writing styles. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Assumed knowledge: Arabic 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes demonstrate advanced reading skills in a variety of Modern Standard Arabic genres;
write a coherent argument, discussion or explanation in Modern Standard Arabic;
write effectively according to audience, purpose and content;
demonstrate written work of a high level of grammatical accuracy and extensive knowledge of vocabulary;
analyse text in Arabic identifying meaning and how it is conveyed;
respond to texts personally, critically and sensitively, evaluating linguistic and cultural features;
apply techniques for autonomous learning of Modern Standard Arabic language skills. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 1 hour a week 20 N Individual N  Portfolio 2,500 words 40 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)