Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 4001 Architecture Studio: Urban Architecture Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301316 Coordinator Ursa Komac Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to urban architecture with complex brief requirements, site conditions and technological considerations. Emphasis is on design resolution considering historical, geographical and social aspects. Experimentation at various theoretical levels is expected and students are encouraged to deliver ambitious and imaginative architectural responses. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3753 Bachelor of Architectural Design or 3768 Postgraduate Bridging Program (Architecture). Students not enrolled in 3753 or 3768 who wish to enrol into this subject should have a 5.0 minimum GPA and are required to discuss with the Academic program Advisor. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Address a large scale urban and/or public building design project.
Demonstrate a comprehensive knowledge of the technical requirements informing a large scale project
Analyse and evaluate the links among context, city and architecture.
Demonstrate an advanced design proficiency at a conceptual and technical level. Subject Content 1.Introduction to the professional architectural practice.
2.Analysis of context and precedent to inform design decisions.
3.Creative organisation of architectural programs and material assemblies in large-scale buildings or large-scale complex urban environments/scenarios.
4.Graphic visualisation and literacy.
5.The application of design technology to generate architectural solutions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    1x Design Project  Drawings and/or Models;
3 minutes  (presentation) 20 N Individual   1x Major Design Project (Group)
Presentation (Individual)   Drawings and Models; 
3 minutes  (presentation)  40 N Both (Individual & Group)   Drawings, models and report Drawings, models and 500 words (report) 20 N Individual   Portfolio & Reflection 1,000 words, visual compendium 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Architecture, Major (0227) Postgraduate Bridging Program (Architecture) (3768)