Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 2002 Building Measurement Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301208 Coordinator Krisanthi Seneviratne Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to develop the techniques required to measure, quantify and prepare bills of quantities for residential construction using standard method of building measurements.  It will help students to appreciate basic role of a quantity surveyor. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Construction Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects GEOM 2001 - Quantity Surveying 1 Assumed Knowledge Building construction including residential, light industrial and small commercial. Learning Outcomes Identify the role of a quantity surveyor and the bills of quantities
Recognise the use of the ASMM in measuring and preparing Bills of Quantities.
Measure quantities of simple structures in accordance with the Australian Standard Method of Measurement of Building works (ASMM).
Utilise commercially available software for the production of Bills of Quantities. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Approximately 7 pages 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sepani Senaratne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Krisanthi Seneviratne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies (exit only) (3697) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Building (BLDG) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045)