Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 0003 Introductory Business Mathematics (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900114 Coordinator Michael Casey Opens in new window Description This subject consists of two modules. The first module has been designed to provide a revision of basic mathematical concepts and methods that apply to business situations. They include basic mathematical operations, percentages, equations, index numbers, logarithms, direct and inverse variation, and graphs. The second module has been designed to provide students with the necessary skills for making practical financial decisions. The concepts taught include simple interest, compound interest, annuities and their applications as they apply in a business environment. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects MATH 0007 - Mathematics 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Foundation program at The College. Assumed Knowledge Mathematics Year 10 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Solve problems involving basic mathematical operations, equations and formulae.
Model mathematical problems using appropriate graphs.
Apply simple and compound interest concepts and annuities to real-life business problems.
Demonstrate an understanding of how the concept of the time value of money can be applied to investments.
Demonstrate an understanding and an ability to apply a variety of fundamental mathematical concepts to solve familiar and unfamiliar problems.
Interpret and communicate mathematical ideas in a clear and effective manner, using appropriate notation.
1. Solve problems involving basic mathematical operations, equations and formulae.
2. Model mathematical problems using appropriate graphs.
3. Apply simple and compound interest concepts and annuities to real-life business problems.
4. Demonstrate an understanding of how the concept of the time value of money can be applied to investments.
5. Demonstrate an understanding and an ability to apply a variety of fundamental mathematical concepts to solve familiar and unfamiliar problems.
6. Interpret and communicate mathematical ideas in a clear and effective manner, using appropriate notation. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam   1 1 hr 10 N Individual   Intra-session Exam   2 1 hr 25 N Individual   Applied Project  25 N Individual   End of session Test 3 hrs 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Mathematics (MATH)