Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3037 Clinical Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401307 Coordinator Leigha Dark Opens in new window Description This clinical subject will operationalise the knowledge and skills developed in the first three years of speech pathology study to provide appropriate and holistic care for paediatric clients. Students will undertake supervised clinical practice to assess and treat paediatric clients. Clinical experience placements may be in speech pathology subjects in hospital, community health, school or on-campus settings. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include communication, documentation, reflection and professional and ethical behaviour. In addition, students will develop skills in client assessment, interpretation of findings and education. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2011 Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Placement Assessment 13 weeks 60 Y Individual   Case Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual   Clinical Portfolio 10 pages 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)