Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 2001 Contemporary Management Accounting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200108 Coordinator Rada Massingham Opens in new window Description This subject examines the role of contemporary  management accounting systems and techniques as well as  the factors that influence the design of these systems.  Students learn about appropriate choices of the different management accounting techniques and the importance of strategy in the contemporary business environment. Students expand their knowledge by applying techniques through real-life scenarios, and analysing and make recommendations  that take into account the constraints and opportunities each present. Through the design of performance measurement systems, students demonstrate skills in critical thinking and decision making valued in the accounting organisations. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) FINC 1001 or ACCT 1010 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the role of management accounting systems in supporting business strategy and the limitations of traditional management accounting techniques
Communicate solutions in a clear, concise and ethical manner supported by analysis to assist management in decision making, resource management and value creation
Identify the factors that influence the design of management accounting systems and choice of contemporary management accounting techniques
Design a strategic performance measurement system using the balanced scorecard to incorporate non-financial performance measures
Apply contemporary management accounting techniques to real life scenarios 
Collaborate with diverse team members to plan and complete a group project dealing with management accounting concepts and recommendations Subject Content Balanced score card, key performance indicators, performance benchmarking.
Profitability analysis.
Product life cycle and target costing.
Pricing and product mix decisions.
Business process re-engineering.
Inventory management techniques.
Quality management: measurement and control, and cost of quality reports.
Productivity: measurement and control, productivity analysis, value added, non-value added.
Value chain analysis.
Strategic management accounting.
Behavioural issues, performance related remuneration.
Sustainability and environmental management accounting Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Weekly 10 N Individual Y  Quiz 5 times throughout teaching term 10 N Individual Y  Case Study 2000 words 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 60 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Bachelor of Accounting (2783) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Business Regulation, Governance and Compliance, Major (0165) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)