Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3079 Travel in the Digital Age Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102779 Coordinator Garth Lean Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject replaced by TOUR 3001 - Tourism, Events and Technology. This subject explores the ways in which digital technologies are reshaping travel, including travellers' experiences, and planning and management of the travel industry. Students will learn how digital technologies are being utilised, and the opportunities and challenges these technologies present. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with travel apps, virtual/augmented reality technologies, smart attractions and transport technologies. Students will also learn how to conceptualise and pitch their own digital travel products. Upon completion of the subject, students will be well placed to develop and manage innovative, socially responsible travel and mobility technologies. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points of study. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate opportunities for the use of digital technologies in travel and tourism;
Evaluate potential challenges, threats and social-inequalities created by social technologies;
Critically review digital travel and tourism technologies;
Ascertain technology gaps in the travel and tourism industries;
Devise new travel and tourism technologies;
Propose digital technologies to an expert audience. Subject Content The digital disruption of tourism and travel;
Rethinking tourism communities and stakeholders in relation to the digital futures of work and society;
Opportunities, benefits, challenges and risks of digital technologies in travel and tourism;
Travel/tourism smartphone applications and their design and development;
Digitally enhanced attractions and destinations (including digital interpretation, and the use of augmented and virtual reality);
Digital travel experiences and destinations;
The future of transport and transit (including autonomous cars/buses/trains/planes, windowless planes, digital airports/hotels); and
Opportunities for understanding tourist markets with digital technology (including tourist/traveller tracking and ethical/privacy implications). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 35 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes (500 words equivalent, per person) 25 N Group Y  Proposal 1,000 words per group member 40 N Group Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Tourism (TOUR)