Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1040 Enterprise Leadership (Block) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500077 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description Enterprise Leadership begins the development of the understanding of the role and function of business management and enterprise leadership concepts. Enterprise leaders need to balance a range of stakeholder perspectives in dynamic internal and external environments at local and global levels. Students are introduced to people, managerial and organisational processes designed to achieve enterprise leadership. Problem solving scenarios and experiential learning provide students with a foundation to develop personal and professional skills required to effectively manage their careers. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 1038 - Management Dynamics BUSM 1008 - Enterprise Leadership BUSM 1009 - Enterprise Leadership (WSTC) Incompatible Subjects BUSM 1014 - Introduction to Business Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7180 - Undergraduate Certificate in Business Management Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate skills in verbal and written communication appropriate for multicultural and diverse business and reporting;
Identify enterprise design, formation and the business-life cycle using an integrated perspective;
Outline the key leadership issues involved in the start-up, growth and reinvigoration of a business;
Evaluate key stakeholder roles in enterprise decision-making and the role of leadership in change management;
Choose and justify appropriate people and managerial processes and systems for different enterprise problem scenarios. Subject Content 1. Skills for effective business and enterprise communications including multicultural communication
2. Approaches to understanding enterprise leadership in a variety of contexts
3. Key strategic, managerial and organisational processes
4. Innovation and entrepreneurial business processes
5. Managing and leading groups and teams in multicultural contexts
6. Managing people processes and systems in high-performing organisations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 3 x 300 words 30 N Individual N  Report 4-5 minutes, 1,000 words 50 N Individual N  Reflection 600 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Block C Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block E Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block F Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Rachel Renwick Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Undergraduate Certificate in Business Management (7180)