Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7056 MR Screening Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401328 Coordinator James Nol Opens in new window Description MR Screening is a core subject in the course of Advanced Imaging. Magnetic Resonance (MR) Screening tests are essential to categorise patients' conditions for faster and reliable patient management. In a real clinical environment, less than 10 per cent of MR Screening patients will need to go for a full Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) examination. This subject will provide students with a detailed understanding of the rationale and principles of setting up MR Screening protocols. It will demonstrate the determinant criteria for the setup of the screening protocols in collaboration with the referring clinical team. Students will learn to create research programs to validate the effectiveness of the screening protocols. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating the MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site under the supervision of a WSU MRI clinician. School Medicine Discipline Radiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) MEDI 7055 MR Neurology - Head Neck and Spinal Imaging
MEDI 7054 MR Musculoskeletal Imaging
MEDI 7053 MR Body and Pelvis Imaging Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points and students must be enrolled in 4767 Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique the rationale for setting up Magnetic Resonance (MR) screening protocols and the pros and cons of the screening protocol
Create effective MR Screening protocols to provide confident diagnostic outcomes without the lengthy scan time
Evaluate the safety requirement of a dedicated “Multiposition” MRI room in comparison with a traditional “Bore” technology
Streamline workflow and patient centred care to facilitate Open Access to dedicated MR screening protocols
Explore future research projects to add to the list of MR Screening tests in collaboration with specialists from different clinical specialities
Employ a reflective approach to recommend and establish an MR screening protocol based on the patient condition mentally, physically and clinically during clinical placements
Review MR Screening cases to provide image Interpretation with a high-level of diagnostic confidence Subject Content Rationale and principles for setting up screening protocols of: Brain Stroke, Appendix, Musculoskeletal, Renal Colic, Biliary Colic, Prostate, Breast Screen.
Advanced anatomy and normal variants as well as identifying the anatomy of abnormal organs and the different pathologies associated with different pathologies.
Pros and cons of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (‘MR’ or ‘MRI’) screening tests.
MR screening protocol setup guidelines
Research a program to validate the effectiveness of the screening protocol to additional clinical indications.
The relationship between Evidence Based Imaging and MRI.
Clinical Training via 3 different pathways Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Note:  Due to covid restriction, the Working with Children Check (WWCC) and Student Undertaking has been temporarily been removed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Literature Review 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words each 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact James Nol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) (4767) Medical Studies (MEDI)