Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1041 Organisational Behaviour (Block) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500078 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description Organisational Behaviour examines individual, group and organisational behaviours and the influence these have on each other. This subject is designed to develop skills that can help you navigate through these processes and behaviours. The focus is on participation, to guide students to both reflect on and develop their own skills to become better managers, as well as employees. School Business Discipline Organisation Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 1026 - Organisational Behaviour BUSM 1027 - Organisational Behaviour (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7180- Undergraduate Certificate of Business Management Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify organisational behaviour theories, and practice;
Analyse and apply organisational behaviour theory and research to management practice;
Demonstrate presentation skills relevant in the business environment;
Analyse and reflect on the three components of organisational behaviour: the individual, the team and the organisation structure;
Demonstrate written communication skills relevant in the business environment. Subject Content 1. Reflective and critical thinking
2. Exploring and developing personal strengths
3. Developing communication skills
4. Rational versus irrational decision making
5. Team processes and skills
6. Motivation or disengagement?
7. Developing your personal and organisational credibility Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 600 words 15 N Individual N  Applied Project Part A – 300 words
Part B – Groups of 4 = 5 minutes per student
Part C – 1,200 words
Part D – 150 words 85 N Group/Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Block B Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block D Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Undergraduate Certificate in Business Management (7180)