Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7059 Judicial Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201069 Coordinator Michael Brogan Opens in new window Description This subject provides an internship opportunity for later year law students. Students will spend twelve days throughout the semester at selected courts and tribunals under the supervision of magistrates, judges or tribunal members. The subject will provide students with an opportunity to observe the courts and tribunals first hand, to be mentored by a judicial officer, to engage in practical assistance to the relevant court or tribunal, and to appreciate the professional responsibilities essential for a 21st Century legal practitioner and judicial officer. The subject will assist students in advancing their legal and research skills and deepen their experience of the social, practical and ethical complexities encountered by the legal profession. The subject will also assist students in their transition from university to the profession.  Entry is competitive and will include a written application and interview. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7066 AND
LAWS 7048 AND
LAWS 7072 AND
LAWS 7061 AND
LAWS 7047 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the2826 Juris Doctor program. 
Permission required.  
Places in this subject are limited. Students will be selected on merit based on the following: 
1.  Submission of an expression of interest, including relevant documents, in seeking to undertake the subject (either submitted to an external body or to the subject coordinator); and 
2.  Completion of a satisfactory joint interview process with the subject coordinator and/or a representative of a professional body, court or tribunal. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically reflect on the limitations of the law, professional and judicial ethical issues and the protocols of courts and tribunals;
Examine the operation of a court or tribunal;
Perform legal tasks within a practical legal and judicial context;
Research professional legal and judicial ethical and practical issues that arise in professional practice;
Reflect on professional development experiences and needs;
Evaluate approaches to problem solving in policy or legal practice professional settings. Subject Content - professional and Judicial ethics
- court and tribunal Operational protocols
- Paralegal tasks within practical and Judicial contexts
- Issues in professional practice
- legal theory, policy and reform
Students will undertake a twelve-day attendance (internship) in a court or tribunal during which students will be mentored by a judicial officer and have an opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of the practice and procedure of the court or tribunal. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Student Undertaking Form and have applied for a National Police Certificate. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 12 days S/U Y Individual Y  Proposal 200 words 5 N Individual Y  Reflection 4,000 words 65 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 2 hours S/U Y Group Y  Quiz 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)