Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1003 Arabic 102 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100042 Coordinator Sawsan Amara Opens in new window Description This is a post beginner level subject in Arabic building on the knowledge and skills developed in Arabic 101. It aims to further develop listening, speaking, reading and writing skills in elementary Arabic. The subject includes a socio-cultural component which will examine aspects of the contemporary Arab world and its culture with a particular emphasis on the Arabic-speaking community in Australia.  Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Program Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Assumed Knowledge 100041 Arabic 101 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply post-beginner Arabic language skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing;
Interact in the Arabic Language at post-beginner level in a range of communicative situations;
Use simple grammatical structures;
Identify key characteristics of spoken Arabic in comparison with Modern Standard Arabic;
Demonstrate general knowledge of Arab countries, their culture, and the Arabic-speaking community in Australia. Subject Content Activities and tasks aimed at further developing listening comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills at post beginner level;
The development of lexical and grammatical comprehension at post-beginner level;
An introduction to some forms of spoken Arabic;
Further development of knowledge of Arab countries, their culture, and the Arabic-speaking community in Australia. Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Presentation 3-5 minutes 10 N Individual N  Portfolio Student diary: 10 sentences; Essay 500 words 30 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Sawsan Amara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Language and Literature (LANG)