Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 3014 Music and Critical Thought Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102573 Coordinator Michelle Stead Opens in new window Description Music and Critical Thought considers definitions of music and how music is constituted. It asks how we encounter and experience music, and what makes a piece of music aesthetically pleasing and who decides. It asks whether the meanings attributed to music are as much intrinsic as they are cultural. The subject considers emotions and feelings in music, and why we would listen to music if it makes us feel sad. When music is used as an instrument of torture is it still music? How do we view the composer in the musical work? Where does creativity reside in a musical work? Is there a difference between musical thinking and thinking about music? Is music representational or immanent or both? Is music political? The subject provides an historical overview of the important debates and considers the poststructuralist critique of these debates. Students will design a question chosen from the topics covered in the subject, and retrieve and critically evaluate the appropriate literature for their project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 3015 - Music and Meaning PERF 3016 - Music and Philosophy Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: define key critical terms and concepts in music
explain the critical debates in music
apply critical thinking to music and to music analysis
evaluate the poststructuralist intervention into critical thinking in music
design a research project
write a proposal for a research project
retrieve and provide a literature review for a research project
unfold a sustained, critical argument as an essay for a research project
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Develop, implement and promote Art of Sound activities and projects, guiding and collaborating with students across the Music program to further progress leadership, advanced production and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in contribution to the program and coordination of the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Debate 15-20 minutes 35 N Group/Individual N  Short Answer Weekly, in class 30 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 35 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Michelle Stead Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Musicology, Major (0025) Musicology, Minor (0025) Performing Arts (PERF)