Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1019 Introduction to Journalism (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700182 Coordinator Ariadna Kiehn Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the fields of journalism and new media, covering the concepts of news values and news research for target audiences.  It looks at the role of the journalist and the professional skills of news gathering and news writing.  The subject also considers the legal and ethical obstacles and obligations faced by journalists operating in an environment of fast paced communication.  The methodologies underlying professional practice as well as delivering news with speed for multimedia platforms are central to this subject. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Journalism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year 2 units Equivalent Subjects COMM 1018 - Introduction to Journalism Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the importance of journalism in the modern world.
Understand the importance of audiences and medias when choosing news.
Explain the flow of information in creating news.
Ask questions and conduct interviews in a professional context.
Engage with the news and news environments for published outcomes.
Apply skills gained for intellectual and professional insights. Subject Content Journalism as professional practice
Journalism as decision-making
Finding news
Choosing news and sources
Gathering news
Evaluating information
Constructing news
Editing news
Working with words
Marketing/selling news to a target audience Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 400 words 25 N Individual N  Applied Project 600 words 40 N Individual N  Portfolio 500 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication (exit only) (7043) Diploma in Communication Extended - Communication (7148) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication Extended - Screen Media (Arts and Production) (7150) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015)