Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 1007 Environmental Health Issues and Solutions (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description This subject explores the interdependent nature of human health and that of the environment, both natural and urban. Concepts explored include 21st Century contaminants, noise, energy and water. Through a combination of case studies and practical field experience, students will develop the skills and knowledge appropriate to develop solutions to a variety of environmental health issues. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENVL 1003 Environmental Issues and Solutions (WSTC)
ENVL 1006 Environmental Health Issues and Solutions
PUBH 1002 Environment and Health
ENVL 1002 Environmental Issues and Solutions Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College. Students enrolled in Extended Diploma course 7122 Diploma in Science Extended – Science, must have passed 40 CPs of preparatory subjects in order to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Identify and describe a variety of environmental issues Describe a number of emerging environmental issues due to urban development
Identify and explain the essential characteristics of environmental noise. 
Monitor, assess and make appropriate recommendations to address environmental noise issues.
Identify and explain the legal and administrative components of noise.
Identify relevant environmental legislation and policy.
Demonstrate competency in academic writing.
Research and communicate a case study of an environmental issue 
Demonstrate critical thinking by identifying solutions to a chosen environmental issue Subject Content Introduction into a number of environmental issues
Urban development and environment
Energy use
Water pollution
Water security
Urban environments and human health
21st Century contaminants
Environmental determinants of human health and wellbeing
Environmental noise
Assessment, regulation and control of environmental noise
Concepts of health, traditional and new public health approaches to population health 
Environmental health policy, practice and stakeholder responsibilities
Real world case studies Special Requirements Essential equipment Electronic Device to access vUWS. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 10 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 30 N Individual N  Discourse Analysis 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts In place of a set text for this unit, students will be directed to a broad range of regularly updated online texts, peer-reviewed articles, government reports and policy documents. Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in Science (exit only) (7084) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)