Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7033 TESOL Internship Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 101698 Coordinator Ping Yang Opens in new window Description This is a professional practice subject which consists of an internship in an English language teaching organisation for students of TESOL. It involves participation in the various aspects of the work of the teaching organisation, including a supervised English language teaching practice component for local students. Assessment items facilitate students' self-reflection on their teaching practice and critical evaluation of teaching methods and needs assessment in practice. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Language And Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7140 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 0754 - TESOL Internship Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1800 Master of Arts in TESOL, 1801 Graduate Diploma in TESOL, 1802 Graduate Certificate in TESOL or 1816 Master of Translation and TESOL Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of TESOL field and methodology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: identify through observation various TESOL approaches in different teaching situations;
demonstrate an understanding of successful TESOL teaching through observation of teaching and consultation with experienced teachers regarding their practice;
adapt for use a variety of TESOL teaching materials and resources;
plan, deliver and evaluate TESOL teaching and learning activities; and
demonstrate understanding of important non-teaching elements in language teaching and learning settings such as planning, teacher collaboration, reflection of teaching materials design. Subject Content The internship builds on the knowledge and skills students gain in TESOL Methodology and Curricula by situating it in differing TESOL settings such as ELICOS, AMEP, English for Specific Purposes. The main components of the internship are: Observation of classes in A range of different English language Teaching settings, consultation with Teaching staff, team- Teaching, and Teaching of small withdrawal groups as appropriate in English language Teaching Organisations, and participation in all aspects of work in these organisations.
Examination of commercial and teacher- produced Teaching resources and materials, including computer assisted language learning resources, current curriculum approaches, and language assessment materials in The range of TESOL settings.
Supervised practice Teaching for local students in The centre in which they are undertaking their internship or through An English language centre. Practicum may be undertaken in The partner universities overseas depending on funding and placement availability.
Teaching practice which does not require formal supervision for external students. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 20 hrs class observation; 20 hrs of service learning of a mixed range of teaching tasks; 10 hrs supervised and 10 hrs unsupervised teaching practise. 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ping Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ping Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in TESOL (1802) Graduate Diploma in TESOL (1801) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts in TESOL (1800) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)