Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7009 Critical and Creative Enquiry Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102628 Coordinator Shiri Hergass Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to extend students' capacity to undertake critical and creative research in the arts therapies. Students will have the opportunity to work together and extend each other's work while undertaking a small research project that does not involve human research subjects.  The theories and ethics of difference and diversity will be central to the process of enquiry. This includes formulation of research questions or problems, the choice and articulation of appropriate methodologies; data gathering and analysis; and the preparation of a research report.  Students will learn to systematically question the dominant assumptions of their field and generate alternatives to a tendency for practitioner research to reproduce 'the same'. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 7008 OR
HUMN 7036 Equivalent Subjects HUMN 7025 - Integrated Project LGYA 7525 - Integrating Theory Research and Practice Incompatible Subjects HUMN 7010 - Critical and Creative Enquiry WELF 7020 - Practising Research and Researching Practice Restrictions Must be enrolled in 4595 Master of Art Therapy or 8083, 8084, 8085, 8086, 8087 Bachelor of Research/Master of Research. Assumed Knowledge Introductory knowledge of theory and research methodology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan and implement a sustained critical reading program in a relevant area.
Map and critically analyse the connections between theory, research and practice.
Investigate a research question so as to critically conceptualise relationships between theory, research and practice in arts therapy.
Demonstrate an understanding of the research process in practice.
Organise, create and reflect on an oral, visual and/or performative presentation of their work.
Exemplify high level analytical and written skills in the completion of the final written report. Subject Content Advanced literature searching.
Advanced analysis of how theories of difference and diversity relate to research methods and research practice.
Ethics of practitioner research.
Exploration of theoretical, critical, collaborative and arts-based research practice.
Developing and implementing a research project.
Developing collaborative and research team skills.
Preparing and giving a seminar presentation on the process of working in teams/groups.
Preparing a written research report. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 words 15 N Individual Y  Report 5,000 words 65 N Individual Y  Participation in-class 20 N Group Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Shiri Hergass Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)