Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2036 Professional Development in Teams-based Projects Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ali Hellany Opens in new window Description Voluntary student-led projects provide many benefits to students including improved on-campus experience and the expansion of peer, academic and professional networks alongside extra-curricular opportunities for skills development. Students working on these projects will develop their professional skills to match the expectations of partners, stakeholders, and team-mates who they are working alongside. This subject will support the development of professional skills among students who have demonstrated a significant commitment to a recognised student-led project which will contribute to their career development. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must seek approval from the Subject Coordinator and academic lead for the specified student-led project AND have completed 80 credit points before enrolling in the subject. Assumed Knowledge Students must demonstrate a commitment to a voluntary student-led project for a minimum of 2 semesters prior to enrolling. Learning Outcomes Plan for the development of professional skills relating to a team-based project.
Develop and appraise communication skills relating to a team-based project.
Reflect on personal and interpersonal behaviours relating to teamwork and collaboration, and propose alternatives.
Reflect on personal and interpersonal behaviours relating to stakeholder management, and propose alternatives.
Design and evaluate strategies for resolving team-based issues relating to team member conduct, culture, safety and ethics. Subject Content Special Requirements Essential equipment WHS Module and specialist lab inductions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 500-1000 words 10 N Individual Y  Portfolio Regular entries with an average of 1 per week (200-300 words per week) 30 N Individual N  Interview 10-15 minutes (each) 30 N Individual N  Reflection 1500-2000 words 30 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)