Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2029 Music Multimedia Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102855 Coordinator Andrew Milne Opens in new window Description In small groups, students will develop a creative music/sound and multimedia project. The multimedia aspects can include any subset of video, art, text, lighting, digital technology, installations, sound spatialisation, and algorithmic sound/music generation. Students will learn how to integrate music and sound with multimedia; develop their skills in audio and video software; and create interactions between software and hardware devices. Students will gain experience in collaborating on a creative project and contextualising and promoting their work within a broader cultural and intercultural context. Students will be exposed to ways in which music multimedia is used in professional contexts such as web-design, public art, and music software development. The teaching material comprises pre-recorded lectures and guided workshops undertaken on campus. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1025 Equivalent Subjects PERF 2027 - Electronic Music Production PERF 2010 - Digital Musics 4 Synthesis and Performance PERF 2021 - Sound Technologies and Machine Musicianship PERF 2008 - Digital Musicianship Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify strategies for integrating music and multimedia.
Apply knowledge of music and video software and technology in developing a multimedia project.
Design and develop a thematically coherent artistic project.
Participate in a collaborative creative process.
Investigate potential commercial applications of music and multimedia. 
Critically evaluate decisions and procedures used while developing artistic projects. Subject Content Overview of historical and contemporary multimedia works, artists, and cultural context.
Integrating music and sound with video, art, text, lighting, space, and interaction.  
Importing, editing, manipulating, and automating video in software environments.  
Interfacing between software, hardware, and humans.  
Developing algorithmic routines for interacting, generating, and manipulating sound, music, and visuals. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes 15 N Group N  Quiz 30 questions 15 N Individual N  Applied Project 3–7 minutes for a recorded piece; alternatively, a single installation 40 N Group/Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew Milne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Music Production, Minor (0079) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF) Sound Production, Minor (0242)