Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7051 Applied research with marginalised populations and sensitive health topics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800215 Coordinator Elizabeth Conroy Opens in new window Description This subject will teach students practical knowledge and skills for conducting research with marginalised populations and on sensitive health topics. Students will learn ethical, methodological, and practical considerations in applied qualitative and mixed method research.  Upon completion of the subject students will be able to develop a theoretically coherent qualitative or mixed method research protocol and justify their decision making at every stage of the research process. The skills developed in this subject will enable students to adapt research methods to ensure the integrity of the research process with marginalised populations and sensitive health topics. School Graduate Research School Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Students will need basic knowledge of research design/approaches e.g. 800166 ‘Research Design 1: Theories of Enquiry’ or 401076 ‘Introduction to Epidemiology’ or 401080 ‘Research Protocol Design and Practice’ or similar. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of ethical considerations in working with marginalised populations and sensitive health topics
Demonstrate knowledge of mixed method or qualitative research design
Critically appraise the development of study materials
Critically appraise recruitment procedures and protocols
Demonstrate ways to involve the community throughout the research process
Demonstrate engagement in reflexivity throughout all stages of the research protocol Subject Content The subject is presented via series of in-person workshops supplemented by online content. The following topics will be covered: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 words 30 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 2,000 words 30 Y Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Elizabeth Conroy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)