Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2009 Workplace Learning 1 (Therapeutic Recreation) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400246 Coordinator Nicole Peel Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the opportunity to apply theoretical and practical knowledge and skills gained in the course to develop their practice and professional behaviours in a therapeutic recreation workplace setting. The subject develops skills for students in working with individuals in a therapeutic recreation program that include assessment, planning, programming and evaluation. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 1008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Health Science - Therapeutic Recreation program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the standards of communication, professionalism and ethics required for effective therapeutic recreation practice.
Communicate the principles, techniques and effectiveness of Recreation Therapy to colleagues, consumers, and the public.
Formulate an individual Recreation Therapy program including assessment, planning, implementation and evaluation.
Apply professional and ethical standards of practice during Recreation Therapy practice.
Utilise skills in task analysis, behavioural observation and functional performance testing. Subject Content 1. Reflective learning
2. Client-centred practice
3. Overview of Program Planning (Assessment, Planning, Implementation and Evaluation)
4. Therapeutic Recreation Leadership Skills and Strategies for Growth
5. Documentation
6. Planning Theories Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 15 minutes 15 Y Individual Y  Report 500 words 15 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words (plus appendices) 50 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 26 hrs on campus 140 hrs field placement S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)