Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7026 Performance Solutions for Bushfire Protection Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301265 Coordinator Ataur Rahman Opens in new window Description This subject describes the processes and techniques available to develop performance outcomes to the planning and building of structures required for bushfire protection in Australia. This subject provides advanced methods to address performance when considering bushfire protection measures. It also introduces the 'bushfire protection guidelines' and processes similar to that used in developing performance solutions under the National Construction Code. These include the use of event tree analysis, verification methods, consideration of climate change and the use of annual exceedance probabilities when developing performance solutions. Students are required to develop suitable measures through a performance solution for bushfire protection of a building. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Fire Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) None Co-requisite(s) None Equivalent Subjects ENGR 7003 Alternate Solutions for Bushfire Prone Areas Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3793 Graduate Diploma in Bushfire Protection or 3708 Master of Bushfire Protection and have completed 40 credit points of study. Assumed Knowledge Students must have prior knowledge of Bushfire behaviour, planning, building, bushfire fighting and emergency management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the principles of performance-based design as it applies to bushfire protection.
Apply the bushfire safety protection guideline process and techniques applicable to bushfire.
Apply the appropriate bushfire protection systems to the development of suitable bushfire design. 
Apply appropriate alternate performance approaches to access for bushfire protection.
Apply the use of 'measures in combination' for developments in bushfire prone areas.
Examine the use and limitations of event tree analysis in bushfire protection design.
Communicate assessments and recommendations for performance-based solutions for bushfire protection. Subject Content Introduction to performance-based approaches and bushfire protection measures.
Bushfire design guidelines and its application to the bushfire event.
Bushfire verification method and event/fault tree analysis.
Bushfire spray systems and its impact on design bushfires.
Bushfire protection measures in combination.
Performance planning as a driver of bushfire protection.
Tools, techniques and data for bushfire protection analysis.
Alternate access arrangements for performance.
Landscaping and maintenance to address performance.
Reporting and implementation of performance solutions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words  (250 words for each question) 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 2500 words 35 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ataur Rahman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Bushfire Protection (3793) Master of Bushfire Protection (3708) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)