Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2017 Education and Transformation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101263 Coordinator Michele Simons Opens in new window Description This subject provides opportunities for students to examine theories and practices associated with Transformative Learning in relation to their personal development as educators. Transformative Learning is learning that is empowering, deep and life changing. It and similar ways of approaching learning - the holistic, ecological and systemic - share a reflective base. All are inquiries into the relationships that make learning work. Students investigate these as theoretical and practical approaches to learning in real world settings: as powerful educational feedback systems. This subject combines the design and practical enactment of theoretically grounded approaches to socially relevant and personally meaningful learning. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain transformative learning theory through reference to key writers in the field;
Analyse transformative learning theory through reference to personal learning experiences;
Apply transformative learning principles to the design of teaching and learning activities;
Articulate an understanding of the relationship between transformative, holistic, ecological and systemic perspectives;
Evaluate personal participation, reflection and vulnerability in transformative learning systems;
Synthesise the process and outcomes of a transformative learning initiative in the university class context. Subject Content 1. Theoretical models of transformative learning and variations in emphasis developed by key writers in the field;
2. Relationships between transformative learning and holistic, ecological, systemic models and critiques;
3. The transformative perspective in teaching and learning: transmission, transaction and transformation in educational practice;
4. Transformative Learning and vulnerability: emotion and sensitivity in learning about and designing educational futures;
5. Participation, reflection, transformation and the systemic perspective in progressive social change and cultural development;
6. Case studies of transformative, holistic and ecological initiatives in education and social change. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual   Critical reflection 1,000 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Social Ecology, Minor (0215) Teacher Education (TEAC)