Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 0004 Organisation for Tertiary Study (WSTC) Credit Points 5 Legacy Code 900089 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject aims to familiarise students with some of the concepts and issues surrounding healthy living, particularly for young people in an environment far from parental support.  It introduces students to academic skills and the expectations of learners in a tertiary environment while further developing their language skills.  By the end of this subject, the goal is for students to have a better knowledge and understanding of how to improve their health, develop organisational skills and learn to manage their time.  The subject also aims to develop their understanding of the effect of drug use on health and lifestyle.  There will be a range of teaching and learning strategies used in this subject including working in groups. The aims of this subject are to develop an understanding of the concept of health and wellbeing; develop and maintain organisational skills for various areas of life; create a mindset and learn skills to manage time well. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Other Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 1377 - Living Skills (UWSC) Restrictions Only students enrolled at The College in Foundation Studies programs can enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify key health issues which confront young people in particular.
Define and explain some key concepts related to good health.
Identify healthy and unhealthy choices.
Demonstrate an ability to organise their study, eating, exercise and leisure schedules.
Collect information from AV sources.
Undertake research using the skills of collecting, analysing and organising information from a variety of sources.
Read at a pre tertiary level.
Interpret data in the form of text, graphs, statistics and illustrations.
Write notes, summaries and extended responses.
Use technology in their studies Subject Content 1. Introduction
Introduction to the Academic program.
2. Goals and Time Management.
Personal goals, weekly planner, monthly assessment planner.
Choices that we have to make with our time and how these affect our lives and, in particular, tertiary study.
3. Food Matters
Nutritional information about foods and the impact of food on physical and mental health and well being.
4. Drug use and its impact.
Legal and illegal drugs. Personal and societal effects of drug usage in Australia.
5. Customs/Protective Behaviours
Understanding some Australian customs and identifying risky behaviour.
Some basic survival techniques. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Planning and Organisational Task 750 words 20 N Individual   Mid-Term Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual   Research Assignment 200 – 500 words 30 N Individual   Classroom Activities  30 N Individual Structures that include subject Other Health (HLTH)