Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 2004 Cyber Crime and Social Engineering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102700 Coordinator Farnaz Farid Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on both the theory and application of cyber crime and cybersecurity. More specifically, it focuses on the intersection between human behaviour, cyber crime, and cyber security with topics ranging from social engineering to organisational security infrastructure. It asks - What outcomes do cyber criminals seek? How can you protect yourself and your business from cyber crime? What methods do cyber criminals typically use to gain their desired outcomes? In this subject, cyber crime and cyber security is covered from both a theory-based and applied understanding of how to reduce the likelihood of or harm caused by cyber crime. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of computer systems and network structures. This knowledge is gained as the student progresses through their first semester in the program with a start-year intake; or from the completion of two semesters in the program in the case of a mid-year intake. A basic understanding of core theories related to social and cognitive psychology is desirable but not essential. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define cyber crime and cyber safety by its related theories, terms and methods of investigation.
Compare and contrast cyber criminal practices with standard criminal practices.
Describe effective interventions to reduce susceptibility and risk from cyber attacks on an individual or organisation.
Evaluate the quality of organisational preparedness for cyber crime and susceptibility to different cyber criminal tools.
Develop an approach to identifying and assessing weak points in organisational defences. Subject Content Introduction and History of Cyber Crime
Online Safety ? applied and theoretical perspectives
Cyber criminals and cyber crime practices
Vulnerability to cyber crime and social engineering attacks
Protection from cyber crime and social engineering attacks on individuals and organisations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 X 5 MCQ each 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2,000 words 35 N Group N  Portfolio 1,000 words 15 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Farnaz Farid Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Farnaz Farid Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Farnaz Farid Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Farnaz Farid Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Minor (0326) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Cybersecurity Management, Testamur Major (T153) Other information Technology (INFO)