Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 4005 Major Project in Construction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300536 Coordinator Yijun Zhou Opens in new window Description This subject will enhance the ability of students to investigate a selected topic with a construction industry focus and involves preparation of a literature review.  Content includes mechanics of a literature review, use of research (or strategic planning) in the construction industry, development of high-value competencies in terms of marketing, organisational structure and project management. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Construction Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) Successful completion of 200 credit points for students in 2607 Bachelor of Construction Management and 3697 Bachelor of Construction Management Studies (exit only)
Successful completion of 130 credit points for students enrolled in Bachelor of Construction Management StudiesBachelor of Laws Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5398 - Major Project 1 Restrictions Successful completion of 200 credit points. Assumed Knowledge This is a research subject designed to be taken during the final year of the Bachelor of Construction Management standard program. Students should have a comprehensive knowledge of problem solving research in the construction industry. Learning Outcomes Justify the role of research and strategic planning in the construction industry.
Plan and implement a practical research project in construction.
Critically analyse the existing body of knowledge in a defined area of this discipline.
Communicate their research ideas and plans through written forms of presentation. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1 page 15 N Individual N  Report 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Report 5,000 words 60 N Individual N Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)