Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3011 Sport Development Applied Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401246 Coordinator Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window Description The Sport Development Applied Project continues student's engagement with an organisation in the sport and active recreation industry.  Building on the foundation laid in the Sport Development Internship, the Applied Project provides students with an opportunity to apply their acquired academic knowledge and skills into real-world applications in an engaged strategic project in sport development. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) SPRT 3012 Incompatible Subjects SPRT 3014 Sport Management Applied Project BUSM 3066 Sport Management Internship Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Assumed Knowledge An developed level of knowledge in Sport Development. Learning Outcomes Integrate academic theory into real world applications in a professional setting.
Apply acquired academic knowledge and skills to the development of strategies to achieve set goals.
Collect and critically analyse data to evaluate sport and recreational activities.
Critically reflect and formulate recommendations related to the development of sport and recreation.
Communicate effectively in oral and written formats, and utilise technologies to enhance communications. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 35 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words 15 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)