Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7121 STEM foundations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102508 Coordinator Danielle Pearson Opens in new window Description This subject will enable students to engage with knowledge of research-based integrated approaches to the teaching of science, technology, engineering and mathematics in schools. Students will learn about interdisciplinary methods for STEM learning, including project based learning and design thinking. The subject will allow students to undertake a critical examination of innovative, interdisciplinary approaches to curriculum development and relevant pedagogical strategies to maximise student learning and engagement with STEM disciplines. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge An understanding of at least one STEM (science, technology, engineering or mathematics) school syllabus. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a critical understanding of theoretical constructs underlying STEM curriculum development as it relates to classroom teaching practice and student learning.
Create and evaluate interdisciplinary STEM units
Demonstrate a critical understanding of project based learning as a pedagogical strategy for STEM learning.
Incorporate design thinking into STEM curriculum integration and development.
Critically reflect upon the use of action research to evaluate STEM teaching practices. Subject Content K-12 STEM research
Teachers as action researchers
Interdisciplinary curriculum development
Project Based learning
Design thinking Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,500 words 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Danielle Pearson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Danielle Pearson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) STEM, Testamur Major (T135) Teacher Education (TEAC)