Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6006 Creative Non-Fiction Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tegan Daylight Opens in new window Description This subject engages with the diverse and growing field of creative non-fiction. Students will read and analyse a wide range of non-fiction forms and subjects such as the personal essay, memoir, criticism, true crime, nature and travel. They will discuss various ethical complexities of telling true stories or representing ‘truth’, and address why creative non-fiction has become one of the most visible and rapidly growing genres in Australian and international publishing. Students will consider voice, form and point-of-view and produce a creative assessment with a view to pitching for publication in an Australian journal. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7019 - Writing Process Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing or 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies. Assumed Knowledge Students will be expected to have postgraduate level reading and writing skills. Learning Outcomes 1. Write short creative works in the non-fiction genre.
2. Use drafting and editing processes to write effectively.
3. Critique the ways in which different cultural contexts can shape and influence creative non-fiction.
4. Analyse the effects of voice, form and point-of-view in creative non-fiction.
5. Critique the practice of ‘truth-telling’ in creative non-fiction. Subject Content 1. Close reading of a variety of creative non-fiction texts.
2. Writing as a form of ‘truth-telling’.
3. Exploring the ethical complexities and limits of creative non-fiction.
4. Understanding form, voice and point-of-view.
5. Writing creatively in response to prompts and exercises set by the tutor.
6. The opportunity to share creative work with an experienced tutor and fellow students. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 4000 words OR 3000 words (or equiv) plus 1000 word essay 90 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Tegan Daylight Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1833) Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)