Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7023 Advanced Sport and Exercise Science Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401414 Coordinator Simon Green Opens in new window Description Please note, subject 401291.1 Advanced Sport and Exercise Science replaced by 401414.1 Advanced Sport and Exercise Science from 2020.This subject provides Bachelor of Research Studies/Masters of Research candidates with an interest in Sport & Exercise Science with an opportunity to further their knowledge and skill-sets in the field.  Working closely with their assigned supervisor(s), students will prepare a work-plan to further enhance their theoretical knowledge through a combination of independent and guided-study.  The subject will provide students with an opportunity to strengthen their knowledge and expertise in their selected field of Sport & Exercise Science.  The subject is focused on the development of discipline-specific knowledge (theoretical and practical) to prepare students for their research thesis and future career in a Sport & Exercise Science related field. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 8083 - Bachelor of Research Studies/ Masters of Research Assumed Knowledge Students to have completed an undergraduate degree in Sport and Exercise Science or other closely related Health, Allied Health or Medical Science/Medicine undergraduate equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan, execute and evaluate two programs (learning contracts) of self-directed learning.
Develop and demonstrate sound knowledge and understanding of theory and practice in a chosen topic in Sports and Exercise Science.
Critically review published research about a topic related to your Masters research project.
Develop and demonstrate sound scientific writing skills.
Develop and demonstrate sound oral communication and presentation skills. Subject Content 1.Advanced theoretical content related to the candidates research interests.
2.Developing skill-sets pertaining to Sport & Exercise Science research and/or clinical practice.
3.Management of self-directed learning programs.
4.Interpretation and evaluation of research contributions. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites If you are involved in research work with human participants, you will need to consult with supervisors regarding any compulsory training or background checks that might be required. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract 2 pages for each contract 10 Y Individual Y  Reflection 1 page for each contract 10 Y Individual Y  Presentation 45 minutes 40 N Individual Y  Report 4,000 - 5,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Simon Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Health (HLTH)