Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 2007 Macroeconomic Theory Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200547 Coordinator Mamta Chowdhury Opens in new window Description Macroeconomic Theory aims to provide alternative theoretical explanations of the working of the macroeconomy.  The subject will be based on the analytical narratives of macroeconomic developments taught in Australian Macroeconomy.  Starting from the basic IS-LM model, it derives the aggregate demand (AD) curve and examines the components of commodity and money markets.  It also analyses the labour market and derives the aggregate supply (AS) curve of an economy.  Using the AD-AS model, it examines the interdependent nature of macroeconomic problems (e.g. inflation, unemployment), and the effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies within a closed economy context.  The basic model is then extended to analyse open economy issues (e.g., exchange rates and balance of payments, external shocks and international interdependence). Whenever appropriate, alternative approaches to macroeconomics are evaluated. School Business Discipline Econometrics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ECON 1013 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 4311 - Macroeconomic Analysis Assumed Knowledge HSC Mathematics. Learning Outcomes Explain the nature of macroeconomic problems and policy dilemmas: inflation-unemployment trade-offs, government budget surpluses and deficits, current account deficits, and exchange rate movements
Describe unemployment: causes, consequences, and policies
Analyse inflation: causes, consequences, and policies
Illustrate the link between balance of payments, exchange rates and interest rates
Examine the role and effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies.
Apply analytical models of macroeconomics to understand economic policy in a changing environment Subject Content Structures that include subject Economics and Econometrics (ECON)