Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7018 Computational Thinking across the STEM Curriculum Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102509 Coordinator Adam Watson Opens in new window Description This subject will enable students to develop knowledge of computational thinking as it can be applied across the STEM curriculum in schools. Students will learn about the nature of computational thinking as a problem solving approach which can be applied to produce digital solutions. The subject will allow students to undertake a critical examination of innovative, interdisciplinary approaches to the development of computational thinking and relevant pedagogical strategies to maximise student learning and engagement with STEM disciplines. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge An understanding of at least one STEM (science, technology, engineering or mathematics) school syllabus. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a critical understanding of computational and algorithmic thinking
Apply knowledge of the K-10 Australian curriculum: Digital Technologies in developing STEM units.
Create and evaluate interdisciplinary STEM units which integrate computational thinking in meaningful ways across traditional subject boundaries.
Apply an understanding of data management, organisation and representation for analytical problem solving. Subject Content 1. The nature of computational thinking
2. The Australian Curriculum: Digital Technologies
3. Algorithmic thinking
4. Working with data across the curriculum
5. Computational thinking across the curriculum Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Adam Watson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) STEM, Testamur Major (T135) Teacher Education (TEAC)