Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3008 Investment Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200819 Coordinator Kelly Liu Opens in new window Description Investment Management describes the theory and practice of investment decision-making. The general objective of the subject is to introduce students to the tools of financial investment by providing a conceptual framework within which the key financial decision of investment can be analysed. This subject  provides an overview of the theory of investing by describing investor indifference curves and optimal portfolios. The subject will include evaluating asset allocation, security selection and security analysis within an active portfolio management framework, measuring portfolio performance and security selection decisions. School Business Discipline Investment and Securities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects ECON 3015 - Investment Management ECON 3020 - Portfolio Management Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate comprehensive disciplinary knowledge regarding the sources of finance, and the financial instruments in the Australian financial environment.
Evaluate equities, bonds and bills from an investment perspective.
Provide micro and macro analysis as applied to stock selection.
Evaluate both quantitative and qualitative indicators of investment returns and risk.
Apply portfolio performance measurement tools and manage a diversified portfolio.
Demonstrate comprehensive disciplinary knowledge regarding investor requirements with actual outcomes, as measured in the performance measurement stage.
Demonstrate knowledge of the theory of active portfolio management and the Capital Asset Pricing Model. Subject Content 1. Risk versus return trade-off, analysis and valuation of securities.
2. Portfolio performance evaluation.
3. Managing portfolios.
4. Efficient markets.
5. Empirical evidence on security returns.
6. Theory of active portfolio management.
7. Capital Asset Pricing Model. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Group Y  Multiple Choice 90 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Reilly, FK, Brown, KC, Lamba, A & Elston, F 2020, Investment
analysis & portfolio management: Asia-Pacific edition,
3 / 4 Cengage Learning, South Melbourne, Vic. Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Kelly Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kelly Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Gulay Avsar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Financial Mathematics, Testamur Major (T096)