Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3070 Rethinking Research with Indigenous Australians: Independent Study Project (Day Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101759 Coordinator Madison Shakespeare Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with an exciting opportunity to undertake an Independent Study Project on an Indigenous topic. Students will gain greater knowledge of Indigenous people and develop effective communication skills as well as a level of cultural competency. The Independent Study Project will expose students to the complexities of the cultural inter-relationships and the politics of undertaking research with Indigenous people. It will also provide students with skills and ideas for future research projects that will add to Indigenous knowledge and provide a sound foundation for ethical research. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Indigenous Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Undertake culturally appropriate desk top research on an Indigenous topic.
Review and analyse appropriate literature relevant to their Independent Study Project.
Identify appropriate research methodologies relevant to Indigenous people and their communities.
Record and report their research findings to Indigenous people/communities. Subject Content Introduction to research and research methodologies
Conducting culturally appropriate and ethical research
Undertaking a literature review
Applying relevant and current theory when ?edoing?f research with and for Indigenous people/communities
Designing an appropriate and creative project
Reporting research finding to Indigenous people and their communities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 10-15 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Madison Shakespeare Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Indigenous Australian Studies, Major (0015) Indigenous Australian Studies, Minor (0015) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Social Research, Minor (0259) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)