Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7011 Nutritional Assessment Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301184 Coordinator Li Li Opens in new window Description This subject aims to introduce students to methodologies that incorporate anthropometric, biochemical, clinical, dietary and physical activity assessment to assess the nutritional status of individuals and groups. Students will critically explore the strengths and limitations of various methods.  Students will also learn to make professional judgement regarding when and how to use methods, including validating nutritional status assessment methods to achieve valid and reliable nutritional assessment outcomes. School Science Discipline Nutrition and Dietetics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate knowledge of human nutrition, including nutrition science, life cycle nutrition, and the relationship between diet and disease. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Select, justify, implement, and interpret data from, tools and methodologies for assessing the nutritional status of individuals or groups, for various purposes and assess data/results against various guidelines/references.
Critique the strengths and limitations (including measurement errors) of various nutritional status assessment techniques, tools and methodologies.
Obtain, organise, analyse, and present dietary data and interpret results, utilising suitable nutritional analysis software, databases, techniques and procedures.
Describe, critique, apply, and interpret results from, various methods used to determine the comparative validity and reliability of specific tools and methods used to assess nutritional status.
Communicate professionally and effectively in verbal and written formats. Subject Content 1. Methods, including their strengths, weaknesses, and when and how to use, that can be used to assess the nutritional status of groups and individuals. This includes:
i. Anthropometry (for example, body composition)
ii. Biochemical (for example, iron deficiency anaemia)
iii. Clinical (for example, sarcopenia)
iv. Dietary methods (for example, diet diversity or energy intake)
v. Physical activity level
vi. Energy expenditure
2. Results of various nutritional assessment methods to evaluate nutritionally related issues or assess progress against guidelines/references/standards to assess nutritional status (for example, nutrient reference values).
3. Comparative validity and reliability of methods that are used to assess nutritional status (for those that have not been already validated) and the results from validation studies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words  20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Li Li Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749) Other Health (HLTH) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068)