Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2048 Sports Marketing Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jess Richards Opens in new window Description Sports marketing refers to promoting goods and services through sporting events and the endorsement of athletes and sports teams. For any sports organisation, it is imperative to have an effective sports marketing strategy in place to build brand awareness, enhance customer loyalty and generate revenue. Companies in sports use marketing strategies to fulfil their goals, such as attracting more junior players, involving parents, increasing the company's public profile, entertaining spectators, acquiring sponsorships, and securing broadcasting rights deals. Students in this subject will learn general marketing knowledge and theories relevant to the sports industry, such as sponsorship, endorsements, customer experience, pricing and operations. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes Examine sports marketing strategies and the role of marketing in promoting sport nationally and globally.
Apply marketing theoretical frameworks and concepts to the unique factors and characteristics of the contemporary sport industry. 
Analyse market data sources necessary to understand the effectiveness of a marketing campaign 
Identify the evolution of sports marketing from a production, product, and sales focus. 
Investigate the unique nature of sports marketing and the various stakeholders who make up the sport industry Subject Content The unique nature of sports marketing
Sports markets and stakeholder engagement 
Sports consumers and fan typologies 
Market segmentation and target marketing within the sports industry
Managing and promoting a sports brand
Sponsorship, corporate partnerships and the role of game-day activations
Different modes of sales and service in the sports industry 
Value of market analytics for the sport industry Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1000 words equivalency 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 2500 words equivalency 50 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes (per Quiz) 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jess Richards Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303)