Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7014 Innovate: The Entrepreneurial Mindset Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102719 Coordinator Kate Richards Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on current trends and issues in innovation and entrepreneurship in the creative industries with a strong focus on small to media enterprises (SME), ventures within existing business and within government. The subject addresses methodologies for innovation, such as design-thinking and futuring; the role and efficacy of public and private incubators; the forms, foundations, qualities and capacity of entrepreneurship and business development strategies; and the role of networking and industry partnerships, with a focus on the capacities of social media to effect change in markets and partnerships, and business development strategies.. The subject covers existing 'new' business models and emerging trends, such as social entrepreneurship and co-working spaces. The subject builds on previous capstone subjects Ideate, Develop: Makerspace 1 and Produce, Generate: Makerspace 2 in introducing further methods for creative ideation with a focus on technology. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects COMM 7005 - Innovation and Entrepreneurship PG Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Any postgraduate coursework students in the second year of study are encouraged to elect into this unit, for example from ICT, Computer Science, Business Studies, MBA, Advertising etc. Assumed Knowledge A general understanding of capitalism as an economic model; general understanding of how creative industries develop original IP into goods and services. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine specified methods for identifying innovation potential and relevant theories of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurialism.
Discern and critically evaluate trends and models in an innovation and entrepreneurship case study.
Contextualise creative industries projects within models of entrepreneurship.
Apply business development skills to a creative industries business plan.
Identify and apply the key drivers for fuelling innovation in the entrepreneurial eco-system. Subject Content 1. Innovation as methodology and method.
2. Current trends such as creative economies, creative precincts and co-working.
3. Complexity theory and design thinking for innovation.
4. The 21st Century relationships between innovation and Entrepreneurship.
5. Theories and models of entrepreneurship.
6. Business development skills: planning, mectrics, B2B, information requirements.
7. Roles of social media and digital marketing in innovation and entrepreneurship.
Innovation as methodology and method.
Current trends such as creative economies, creative precincts and co-working.
Complexity theory and design thinking for innovation.
The 21st Century relationships between innovation and Entrepreneurship.
Theories and models of entrepreneurship.
Business development skills: planning, mectrics, B2B, information requirements.
Roles of social media and digital marketing in innovation and entrepreneurship. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study  1,500 words 20 N Individual   Presentation 10 minutes (10 slides) 10 N Individual   Professional Task 1,000 words plus one-page business canvas  30 N Individual   Professional Task  1,500 words 30 N Individual   Presentation 10 minutes (10 slides) 10 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM)