Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 3005 Tourism Policy and Planning Credit Points 10 Coordinator Donna James Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a general understanding of planning theory as it relates to sustainable tourism policy and practice. Students will hear directly from practitioners about the ways in which policy and planning is being deployed to address contemporary tourism issues. The subject will explore various planning techniques, tourism policies, scenario mapping strategies and consider conflict resolution practices. The major assessment develops students’ abilities to identify deficiencies in current policy and to propose policy recommendations. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3073 - Tourism Policy and Planning Restrictions Students must have completed 80 credit points prior to enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes Examine planning theory as it relates to sustainable tourism;
Analyse various planning techniques, tourism policies, scenario mapping strategies and conflict resolution practices;
Work individually and in teams to present their ideas orally and in written forms;
Integrate quantitative and qualitative tourism data to formulate policies and procedures; 
Apply planning theory to an analysis of tourism policies, sites, facilities and activities. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes (500 words equivalent, per group member) 20 N Group Y  Report 1,000 words per group member 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Donna James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Place Management and Planning, Major (0304) Sustainability, Tourism and Environment, Major (0305) Tourism (TOUR) Tourism Management, Major (0302) Tourism Management, Minor (0302)