Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2012 Chinese 204 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102027 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This is an intermediate level subject of modern Chinese (Mandarin) language and its culture suitable for students who undertake it as part of the Chinese major or sub-major or as an elective subject. It provides an extension of reading comprehension and writing skills over a range of written registers. The content is selected from contemporary materials (e.g. songs and rhymes, fables and idioms, magazines, short stories and websites). This subject also fosters cultural and social understanding by presenting aspects of contemporary cultures and societies through language use and research work. Differentiated learning and assessment tasks and multimedia activities are utilised to cater to non-background and quasi-background learners. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Mandarin Chinese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School).  Note: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Chinese are encouraged enrol in Chinese 203 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2030 - Language and Communication Skills 2B Chinese Restrictions Successful completion of 20 credit points of Chinese Language at Level 1 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes demonstrate grammatical and lexical knowledge at an intermediate level;
demonstrate reading and comprehension skills, including by reading aloud;
identify and use the conventions of a range of text-types;
write different texts, including practical and expressive text genres;
demonstrate understanding of the popular culture and of the society in which the language is spoken. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio N/A 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 800 to 1200 words (research project; 20%) and
5-8 minutes (presentation; 20%) 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Language and Literature (LANG)