Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7063 Legal Research Project 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201075 Coordinator Maria Bhatti Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a capstone research experience in relation to a structured research project. Students will develop and refine their legal research and communication skills by exploring and analysing a legal topic chosen by the Law School. Students will compose a research paper of 5,000 words on an approved topic in law and will provide a 20-minute presentation based upon the completed project. The research project areas will principally focus upon those areas identified by the School of Law in its Research Strategy. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7027 Equivalent Subjects LAWS 7023 - International Independent Study Law 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 2784 or 2810 Master of Laws (International Governance), 2824 Master of Laws or 2826 Juris Doctor. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Present a sustained evidence based research paper.
Demonstrate a high level of comprehension of the selected topic.
Undertake legal research to locate up to date and accurate information from a variety of both primary and secondary sources.
Engage in analytical, critical and reflective evaluation of issues and materials.
Develop reasoned, coherent and persuasive arguments that lead to a logical conclusion.
Demonstrate excellent academic method and originality in research and writing. Subject Content Students will undertake the following key elements of their research project on an agreed research question under the guidance of their respective supervisors:
1. Research methodology
2. Literature review
3. Topic proposal
4. Submission of paper
5. Class presentation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 750 words S/U N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes S/U N Individual N  Essay 5,000 words 100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Elen Seymour Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Maria Bhatti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maria Bhatti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2846) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)