Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7017 Wastewater Treatment and Recycling Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301278 Coordinator Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window Description This subject teaches students the fundamental science and hydraulic engineering principles necessary to design, operate and troubleshoot wastewater systems consisting of collection, treatment and recycling and resource recovery. Students will be exposed to emerging wastewater treatment processes and its applications through research and practical work. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Water and Sanitary Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply the principles of wastewater treatment processes.
Design the elements of the wastewater treatment units in more detail with appropriate dimensions.
Conceptually design wastewater treatment processes for different applications. 
Explain the emerging treatment processes through a research project.
Design the sludge treatment and management process.
Apply the principles and process of resources recovery. Subject Content Sources and quality of wastewater including storm water sources 
Principles of wastewater treatment process 
Conventional wastewater treatment process design
Treatment and disposal of wastewater sludge 
Emerging and advanced wastewater treatment processes for recycled water production
Resources recovery from wastewater and sludge Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 15-20 pages 25 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words 25 N Group N  Quiz 15 min long each x 12 weeks 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 35 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Environmental, Testamur Major (T058)