Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1057 Doing Sociology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102787 Coordinator Amie Matthews Opens in new window Description With a focus on what it is that sociologists 'do' and why, this subject considers how sociology contributes to a better understanding of everyday life.  That is, to the routine engagements, interactions and practices that make up our individual and social worlds.  Where we live, what we consume, how we feel and the meanings we give our work, leisure, environments and relationships will all be analysed with reference to academic and popular content.   Serving as an introduction to the discipline of sociology and its various sub-fields and methods, 'Doing Sociology' places emphasis on how sociological knowledge can be applied.  In this way, the subject provides students with the opportunity to consider what they might do with sociology; how a sociological perspective might help them better understand the social world and contribute in a meaningful way to resolving contemporary social issues. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify key characteristics of the discipline of sociology and its sub-fields.
Examine aspects of everyday life from a sociological perspective.
Apply sociological perspectives to contemporary social issues.
Evaluate the utility of sociological knowledge in the workplace. Subject Content Introduction to the discipline of sociology.
Introduction to sociological research methods.
Sociology in everyday life.
Sociology in the workplace.
Applying sociological knowledge. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 500 words in total 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes (equivalent to 1,000 words) 30 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Amie Matthews Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Amie Matthews Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Amie Matthews Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Amie Matthews Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Sociology, Major (0030) Sociology, Minor (0030) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)