Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 2013 Leading Games and Sports Credit Points 10 Coordinator Andrew Bennie Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on teaching and coaching young people in a range of Indigenous games, non-mainstream sports, and various other inclusive activities. The aim is to build on students’ knowledge and application of various teaching /coaching styles with a focus on the game sense approach. In particular, the subject addresses issues of diversity and inclusion in school, sport, and recreation activities. As part of the subject, students will implement a teaching program in a local primary school and complete introductory coaching certificates in a variety of sports. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport and Recreation Activities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 1020 Equivalent Subjects SPRT 2007 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4741 - Bachelor of Sport Development,  4791 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 4792 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education or 6000/6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education), 4656 B Health Science, 4747 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) and 4742 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) or 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate competency in inclusive teaching practices.
Apply skill learning phases for diverse groups and demonstrate how these can be enhanced through traditional teaching practices and a games sense approach.
Design, implement and evaluate teaching programs in a local school for a range of traditional Indigenous, striking and target games.
Analyse the sociocultural factors that influence teaching, learning and participation in PE. Subject Content Theory that underpins the principles of traditional teaching practices and the game sense approach
Inclusive teaching for students with a range of abilities and from diverse backgrounds
Planning PE/sport sessions for primary school contexts
Sociocultural factors that influence teaching, learning and participation in physical education and sport
Indigenous education and participation in sport
Level 0 coaching accreditation Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must have completed a: Working with Children Check (volunteer only)
Child Protection Course Legislative pre-requisites Special requirements relate to enrolment into some Subjects, usually those with placements or external activities (e.g., visiting schools) and SPRT 2013 Leading Games and Sports has the following special requirements that must be completed prior to being able to enrol. Working With Children Check - Apply for your WWCC here. Upload your WWCC here. Child Protection Course - Students must complete the TWO components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) on the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/  The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Further info can be found on vUWS. Upload your certificate here. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/enrolment/special_requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Individual (20%) and group (10%) lesson plans 25 N Group/Individual Y  Professional Task 750 words 40 N Group/Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words 35 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew Bennie Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (4792) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Leisure for Diverse Groups, Minor (0253) Physical Activity and Health, Minor (0257) Secondary PDHPE Education, Major (0356) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)