Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3019 Numeracy and Mathematics in Years 3-6 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102649 Coordinator Danielle Pearson Opens in new window Description This subject explores pedagogy specifically relating to the teaching and learning of primary mathematics in years 3 - 6. This subject is one of 16 subjects that provide opportunities for students as Pre-service Teachers to prepare for their future employment as a teacher and to engage with the key elements of the New South Wales Education Standards Authority (NESA). Students will develop skills in pedagogy and practice within the area of primary mathematics. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the course can be applied in this subject and the knowledge and skills developed in this subject can be applied in other subjects in the course. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 2043 Numeracy and Mathematics in the Early Years or
TEAC 1010 Early Primary Mathematics Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the development of the concepts, skills and processes of mathematics related to the teaching of number and algebra, measurement and geometry, and statistics and probability for 8 to 12 year olds in accordance with the NSW K-10 Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Mathematics K-10 syllabus (for K-6), and the ACARA Numeracy Progressions;
Explain the importance of the Working Mathematically processes for primary school mathematics learners and teachers;
Plan effective and engaging teaching and learning experiences for mid to upper primary learners that include the use of a range of digital resources to enhance student outcomes;
Apply knowledge and understanding of a range of engaging pedagogies for teaching and learning mathematics, including cooperative learning, problem solving and investigation based approaches;
Evaluate student learning against curriculum requirements by interpreting student work samples, practising consistent and comparable judgements, and explain the importance of timely and appropriate feedback for student learning;
Apply teaching and assessment strategies for differentiating teaching and learning experiences in mathematics to meet the specific needs of students across the full range of abilities. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject: 1. Students are required to complete a Working with Children Check leading to the issuance of a clearance number under the category of volunteer. Students will need to: 
i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.  
ii. Present an application number and identification to a NSW Motor Registry or Government Access Centre prior to issuance by mail a Working with Children Check number.  
iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number to Student Central where the document is trimmed and recorded in Banner as a Special Requirement. 2. Students must have completed Child Protection Awareness Training (Online) prior to undertaking any visits/placements. 3. Students must have completed the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and registered their certificates with Student Central. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 500 words 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Danielle Pearson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)