Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 4004 Integrated Clinical Rotations General (ICR General) Credit Points 120 Legacy Code 401201 Coordinator Benjamin Woodham Opens in new window Description This is a 120 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (60 credit points in each term). Integrated Clinical Rotations General is a specific subject for students who have deficiencies in performance at the end of Integrated Clinical Rotations 3 or who have not completed Integrated Clinical Rotations 2 and Integrated Clinical Rotations 3. The content will be tailored to each student to enable them to achieve competence in medicine. The subject will run from the middle of one year to the middle of the following year and the examination assessment will be held in conjunction with Integrated Clinical Rotations 3. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 60cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 3003 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7789 - Integrated Clinical Rotations (General) Restrictions Stuudents must be enrolled in 4641 - Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: As years 3-5 of the MBBS program are an integrated whole, and students will undertake various aspects of the clinical programs asynchronously in any of the three years, it is not possible to divide the learning outcomes on year by year basis. However, each of the attachments will have their own learning outcomes which will be made explicit to students in Learning Guides. Subject Content 1. Evidence based medicine project
2. 10 weeks of Medicine in a hospital practicum (2 x 5 week attachment) and
3. 10 weeks of Surgery in a hospital practicum (2 x 5 week attachment) and
4. 5 weeks Critical Care in a hospital practicum and
5. Paediatrics attachment in a hospital practicum and
6. Conference weeks x 2 (Conference Weeks 5.1 and 5.2)
7. PPD via a log book of weekly clinical activities and weekly self-reflection Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30-60 minutes 50 Y Individual Y  Short Answer 2 hours 12.5 Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 2 hours 12.5 Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 2 hours 12.5 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 5 stations completed during attachment. Minimum 1,500 words. 1.5 hours 10 Y Individual Y  Essay Minimum 2,000 words and oral presentation 2.5 Y Individual Y  Learning Contract Throughout subject S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Throughout subject S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Benjamin Woodham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Benjamin Woodham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)