Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2004 Composition and Creativity Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102548 Coordinator Bruce Crossman Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a firm grasp of creative principles and practical experience in the range of compositional techniques and skills required as a composer within a range of commonly employed artistic media and genres (classical, world, popular and avant-garde styles). These skills will provide the basis for professional compositional activity. Students will cover creative and technical issues with reference to a wide range of genres to stimulate across boundary thinking towards personal voice within lectures and tutorials. Practical workshops using compositional principles through student improvisation within creative groups will provide sonic demonstration of compositional ideas. The assessments will include both notated scores and recordings (improvisations; one notated score), in keeping with the Internet distribution age. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1001 OR
PERF 1015 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1103 - Music Composition PERF 2015 - Music Composition Concepts and Creativity Incompatible Subjects PERF 2009 - Digital Musics 3 Composition Crossovers Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Employ a range of composition techniques for the development of musical ideas and their formal organisation
Understand the use of instrumentation and instrumental and timbral colour by studying traditional and contemporary composition techniques
Engage with the musics of composers from the Western art music traditions, cross-cultural, and other music traditions
Apply this understanding to the development of original musical composition for various musical groups (instrumental and vocal)
Use reflective-process analytical writing skills.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: participate in and contribute to Art of Sound activities and projects, collaborating with students across the Music program to develop and enhance production, technical and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in contributing to the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content 1. A range of composition strategies and skills developed through a series of practical exercises, including scores and improvisation
2. Instrumentation, including the ranges of instruments, their capacities for extended techniques and an understanding of their timbres in solo and in combinations
3. Western and non-western, including cross-cultural, music practices and instrumentation
4. Solo or duo instrumental composition, including a precursor improvisation assignment
5. Small ensemble composition, including a digital recording
6. Procedures and conventions in the use of music score software and handwritten manuscripts
7. Analytical and reflective-process skills
8. The relationship of culture, place and identity to composing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 4-5 minutes (composition) 4-5 minute group improvisation 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 6-8 minutes 50 N Group N  Essay 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bruce Crossman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Composition, Minor (0067) Music for Primary Teaching, Minor (0210) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Performing Arts (PERF)