Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1015 Music Theory Fundamentals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102564 Coordinator Clare Maclean Opens in new window Description This subject introduces basic theoretical knowledge such as scales, intervals, chords and progressions. It provides musicianship training in aural, reading and keyboard skills and an introduction to Finale software. Students will learn to analyse harmony and to compose melodies and simple chordal accompaniments in song and theme and variation forms. Keyboard and aural classes will build on the theoretical content presented in lectures. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 1003 - Composition Craft and Theory 1 PERF 1001 - Basic Composition Craft and Theory Restrictions Students undertake audition/interview. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students have had experience with music either as performers, composers and song writers or through music technology. While an understanding of music theory is advisable, experience working aurally with these concepts is acceptable. Learning Outcomes Write a simple composition in song or variation form, using 4 or more chords and simple accompaniment textures.
Notate from aural dictation: intervals, chords, inversions, rhythms, simple melodies and harmonic progressions.
Notate and analyse chords, inversions, cadences, harmonic progressions, and non-harmonic notes.
Harmonise a melody using diatonic functional harmony.
Notate music with Finale or other notation software.
Read and play simple melodies and harmony at the keyboard.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 10-20 minutes each 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1) 16 bars of music each; 2) 3 minutes each 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Clare Maclean Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music for Primary Teaching, Minor (0210) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Musicology, Major (0025) Performing Arts (PERF)