Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7032 Specialised Translation (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100917 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description This subject explores the functional, discursive, rhetorical, syntactic, semantic and lexical features of texts in the following specialised fields: tourism, news media, legal texts, technical & scientific materials. Knowledge of the functions and textual features of specialised texts will provide a basis for translating these specialised texts from and into English. Students will analyse the texts in both languages, and discuss ways in which the texts are to be translated. The subject will be available, depending on sufficient demand, for Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin and Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 3389 - Specialised Translation Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Students need to be bilingual in the language combinations offered by the School. Assumed Knowledge Sufficient proficiency in English plus one other language. This is a language-specific subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: identify and analyse the functional, discursive, rhetorical, syntactic, semantic and lexical features of English texts in the specialised fields of tourism, law, journalism and science and technology;
identify and analyse the functional, discursive, rhetorical, syntactic, semantic and lexical features of LOTE texts in the specialised fields of tourism, law, journalism and science and technology; and
deploy translation strategies appropriate to the specific text types. Subject Content 1. Development of general translation skills to and from English
2. Introduction of different specialised genres.
3. Translation of texts to and from English from specialised fields such as information booklets at museums, news articles of various types, prescriptive and non-prescriptive legal texts, technical manuals. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  Reflection 200 words each 20 N Individual N  Essay Translate a specialised text of 600 words in length, then write a 1200 words essay on the translation process with reference to linguistics and/or translation theory 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)