Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 0001 Academic Skills for Information Communications Technology (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700205 Coordinator Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to become successful independent reflective learners. It introduces students to a range of theories and concepts to facilitate the development of practical skills and personal attitudes necessary for success in tertiary study. Emphasis is placed on developing the key competencies of scientific inquiry - collecting, analysing, organising and communicating information as well as solving problems, particularly when related to using mathematical ideas and techniques. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify effective study skills and strategies to overcome major challenges of tertiary study.
Locate and use information technology systems and educational technologies to support learning and assessment.
Demonstrate competency in the use of the following Microsoft Applications & HTML: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, HTML
Identify and describe the basic components and concepts of Information Technology.
Demonstrate an understanding of essential skills and knowledge required for ICT such as research skills, problem solving skills, analysis skills, communication skills and working in a team.
Demonstrate understanding of different career paths in ICT. Subject Content Topic 1: Academic skills for success at tertiary level
Topic 2: Microsoft Applications - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint
Topic 3: Introduction to HTML
Topic 4: What is ICT? Basic components & concepts of ICT such as main components of IT, computer Networking & internetworking, key security issues of IT , social, ethical and privacy issues relating to computing.
Topic 5: ICT Career paths
Topic 1: Academic skills for success at tertiary level
Topic 2: Microsoft Applications - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint
Topic 3: Introduction to HTML
Topic 4: What is ICT? Basic components & concepts of ICT such as main components of IT, computer Networking & internetworking, key security issues of IT , social, ethical and privacy issues relating to computing.
Topic 5: ICT Career paths Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual N  Presentation 6 minutes 30 N Individual N  Report 500 words per student 30 N Group N  Portfolio 600 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Information Systems (INFS) Other information Technology (INFO)