Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7016 Food Preservation and Packaging Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301180 Coordinator Arua Kalu Opens in new window Description The objective of this subject is to provide students with an understanding of food preservation and food packaging technologies. Contemporary physical and chemical food preservation technologies will be examined, including chilling, freezing, thermal processing, fermentation, dehydration, chemical agents and novel non-thermal techniques. The chemical, physical, functional and nutritional properties of food commodities will also be examined, providing a scientific context for food quality, safety and nutrition.  Students will study packaging materials science to be able to select the most appropriate packaging solutions for a range of food applications. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Bachelor of Science majoring in science; such as biological sciences, chemistry, microbiology, nutrition, medical, forensic, animal science, zoology or pharmacology sciences. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the chemical, physical, functional and nutritional properties of the food commodities and how they determine food quality, safety and nutrition.
Apply current and emerging food preservation technologies to protect food quality and safety.
Identify integrated behaviour of food systems, chemical interactions between food components, and changes induced as a result of food processing.
Analyse spoilage symptoms and identify possible causes of food spoilage in fresh, minimally processed and processed foods.
Select and justify suitable packaging solutions for a range of food applications.
Critically evaluate literature in a chosen area of interest and design a research proposal, including objectives, justification, research plan, and methodology.
Apply principles of food preservation to lab scale production of processed food and evaluate variation in processing parameters or product formulation on product properties.
Systematically record experimental data and use statistical methods to summarise and assist interpretation of data.
Communicate effectively to a range of scientific and professional audiences via written reports and discussions. Subject Content 1. Food Commodities (fruits, vegetables, cereals, meat and dairy), composition, production and processing.
2. Food preservation theories relating to chilling, freezing, thermal processing, fermentation, dehydration, and chemical agents.
3. Current and emerging food processing technologies including novel non-thermal techniques.
4. Causes and prevention of food spoilage, shelf life kinetics and food packaging requirements.
5. Food packaging materials and applications. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 x 15 min 10 N Individual N  Log/Workbook 6 practicals 20 N Individual N  Proposal 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Rosalie Durham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)