Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2023 Interpreting Skills Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100193 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description This is a core component of the Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) and a pool subject in some postgraduate courses. The subject is aimed at developing essential skills in interpreting and deals with the specialised technical skills necessary for the different modes of interpreting: dialogue, consecutive, simultaneous, and sight translation. Given the large amount of independent practice needed to develop competence in interpreting, it pays special attention to the teaching of techniques for autonomous learning. Lectures are held in English for students of all the languages available. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin or Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students need to be bilingual (in the language combinations offered by the School). Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and their other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes distinguish between spoken and written language in terms of content, structure, speed, text type, number of interlocutors, accent, etc;
apply knowledge about different speech styles, registers, social dialects and develop skills necessary to accurately render different discourses in the target language;
demonstrate an understanding of context-specific interpreting techniques used in dialogue, consecutive, simultaneous interpreting and sight translation;
improve listening skills in a variety of contexts such as business, immigration, tourism and motor transport, and develop techniques for autonomous learning of these skills;
use the memory skills required for dialogue interpreting and consecutive interpreting;
master the note taking skills necessary to accurately interpret in the long consecutive interpreting mode, and develop techniques for autonomous learning of these skills;
develop effective public speaking skills, including techniques for autonomous learning of these skills. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Continuous assessment 30 N Individual Y  Practical Continuous assessment of interpreting skills development in class through practical tutorial exercises. 40 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 30 minutes per student 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)