Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 7005 Accounting Theory and Applications Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200401 Coordinator Qingliang Tang Opens in new window Description Basic questions of the role accounting performs in society are considered from economic, social and environmental perspectives. The nature of the statements advanced to give accounting legitimacy, together with their philosophical underpinnings, are  examined. Selected accounting theories and philosophies will be examined and advanced applications in alternative accounting models considered. Accounting research and appropriate methodologies are introduced. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 7010 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program or in programs 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies, 8084 Master of Research (HC) and 8085 Master of Research (LC). The prerequisite requirement noted above does not apply to students enrolled in programs 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies, 8084 Master of Research (HC) and 8085 Master of Research (LC). Students wishing to take this subject as an elective need approval from the program Advisor. Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of accounting principles. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate the role of accounting in society;
Demonstrate an awareness of the differing perspectives from which accounting may be assessed;
Critically analyse a selection of accounting theories and present those ideas to a group;
Demonstrate an ability to work in small groups;
Critique contemporary issues in accounting;
Demonstrate an ability to utilise research methods applicable to applied accounting research. Subject Content Role of accounting in society
Introduction to methodology for knowledge recognition, reasoning, critical thinking.
What accounting research currently involves and how to conduct useful accounting research.
Role of Accounting in Environmental, Social and Governance
Different types of theories, including critical accounting theory.
Different models for measurement of profit and of wealth, including lease accounting.
Human behaviour, particularly in organisations and is relevance for accounting theory. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 3000 words 20 N Group N  Presentation 30 minutes 10 N Group N  Report 500 words 15 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes 15 Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qingliang Tang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qingliang Tang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Accounting (2790) Master of Professional Accounting (2689) Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) (2815)