Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7021 Neuroscience Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800192 Coordinator Yossi Buskila Opens in new window Description A multidisciplinary team will provide an introduction to several aspects of neuroscience including cellular, computational, behavioural and biomedical neuroscience.  The program will provide a strong foundation in modern neuroscience for those wishing to pursue further independent research in the field. With a focus on real-world neuroscience research, topics include introductory biology, computational modelling, biosignal acquisition, signal processing and data mining. The subject will include lecture and laboratory work. School Graduate Research School Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 7030 - Quantiative Methods in Neuroscience Assumed Knowledge Students should have at least background/undergraduate knowledge in one or more of the following: mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics, physiology, electronics or similar. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the nervous system, its basic functions.
Describe the basic structure of neurons.
Understand the basis of the resting membrane potential, Nerst and Goldman equations.
Describe the dynamics of the action potential, neural excitability, synapses, plasticity, integration and facilitation.
Describe the methodology of various neuroscience methods incl. patch clamp and microneurography.
Develop basic computational neural models.
Understand the utility and pitfalls of various biomedical devices for neural integration. Subject Content 1. Introduction to the nervous system, basic functions and structure of neurons.
2. Cellular neuroscience
3. Computational neuroscience
4. Behavioural neuroscience
5. Biomedical neuroscience Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour each 40 N Individual   Report 1000 words 30 N Individual   Report 1500 words 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Behavioural Science (BEHV)