Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3008 Interactive Design: Apps Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102267 Coordinator Sarah Waterson Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on design methodology for the development and delivery of interactive media applications (apps). Particular concepts addressed include conceptual integration and convergence of various media forms, screen design, navigational hierarchy and structures, and designing engaging interactive interfaces. General principles of interface, information architecture and interaction design will be introduced, alongside principles of digital media production. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1021 OR
DESN 1021 Equivalent Subjects DESN 2010 - Interactive Design 1 Assumed Knowledge Computer literacy including working in a networked environment on a Macintosh computer;
management, transportation and storage of digital information and digital production processes such as scanning, pdf production and file storage. Skills in design principles: layout, colour and typography. Literacy with image manipulation software - e.g. Photoshop. Learning Outcomes Design and produce appropriate screen design, information architecture and interface design for a mobile/tablet app.
Produce a design document that successfully applies user scenario and user-centred design processes to project development.
Develop and produce an interactive app that demonstrates the appropriate application of interaction design principles.
Apply and select appropriate digital media formats and design processes within the project work, including planning, evaluation, revision and testing methods.
Identify key issues in the app design domain. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1500 words and design
work 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 1500 words and design
work 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 500 word report and 5 minute presentation 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sarah Waterson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN) Screen Media Design, Minor (0204)