Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4006 Professional Experience 4: Transition into the Profession Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102659 Coordinator Kellie Jorda Opens in new window Description Students will participate in a 30-day professional experience set in the context of their future profession and under the supervision of qualified teachers. This is the final professional experience subject in your degree.  The completion of this Professional Experience recognises you as a conditionally qualified teacher.  This subject aims to recognise your shift from pre-service teacher to beginning teacher. Students will be prepared by exploring issues involved in understanding the needs of learners within specific school and classroom contexts, and will design and teach experiences in ways that will enhance student engagement and student learning outcomes.  The subject is designed to develop your professional identity and the importance of continued professional learning, the relationship between professional and community organisations in supporting educators, and how these influence student outcomes. It will build awareness of skills and practices that will help facilitate preservice teacher's personal wellbeing and resilience in their teaching career. The subject links theory and practice and enables students to construct new knowledge and new ways of practice as part of their transition into the teaching profession. In line with primary teaching specialisation requirements, your professional experience may focus on teaching, evaluating and assessing in the subject area of Science and Technology. Students are required to analyse their own learning in relation to the Graduate Teacher Standards through the completion of a Learning Portfolio and the TPA (Teaching Performance Assessment). This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 3021 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education and have successfully completed 240 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of current research to competently plan, deliver, assess and evaluate lesson sequences and units of work across all Learning Areas;
Demonstrate the capacity to create and maintain supportive and safe learning environments;
Identifies personal learning goals in relation to the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers;
Effectively participates in the specific roles and responsibilities of a primary school teacher and contributes positively to the school community beyond the classroom;
Refine skills and knowledge related to being a teaching professional, including classroom management; relationships with families, community and other professionals; student wellbeing;
Understand professional and ethical practice related to NSW Education policy frameworks;
Identify a range of appropriate professional associations and how they can contribute to professional learning and improve teaching practices to support student learning;
Compile a range of strategies to build and maintain teacher wellbeing and resilience. Subject Content Teaching and planning cycle- using data and assessment evidence about students to inform Lesson planning, assessment and The provision of feedback to students
Critical self-reflection with reference to The Australian professional Standards for graduate teachers
Connecting research with practice to inform planning and Teaching
Pedagogical knowledge to support Teaching and learning decision making
Professional and Ethical practices of The Teaching profession
Differing Roles and responsibilities of teachers
Essential skills and knowledge as A Teaching professional including, professional identity, registering as A teacher, professional associations and professional learning
Teacher wellbeing and resilience Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
     i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
     ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
     iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to:
     i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
     ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
     iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
     iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
     v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to:
     i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
     ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
     iii.  Save certificate of completion
     iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to:
      i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
      ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
      iii.  Save certificate of completion
      iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 30 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 15 - 20 minute presentation S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Teacher Education (TEAC)