Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7033 MSc Research Project Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401156 Coordinator Mark Williams Opens in new window Description Science Research Project is a capstone subject that gives students the opportunity to conduct scientific research, while extending their knowledge and practical skills. Each student undertakes a research project supervised by an academic staff member which has as its central focus the scientific analysis and resolution of a complex problem. The research project is conducted in an area of relevance to professional discipline, and students can choose from a range of approved research designs. Students must undertake a review of the relevant literature, formulation of a research question, design of an appropriate method, collection and analysis of data, interpretation of findings, the production of a research report and presentation of these findings. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in postgraduate program
Students must have completed at least 60 credit points of postgraduate study (level 7) in program 3749 (Master of Science) or other postgraduate course in Science Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Propose and investigate a topic area relevant to a scientific discipline.
Critique peer-reviewed literature pertinent to the proposed topic and identify gaps in knowledge.
Develop research aims and design and conduct experiments within a project framework to test these aims.
Analyse the data from these experiments and formulate conclusions.
Justify the results and conclusions of the project by oral and written communication.
Devise possible areas of inquiry for future research or development.
Reflect on indigenous perspectives as they relate to professional activities within a discipline of science Subject Content Project-based learning relevant to individual professional goals and available expertise within industry, academia or other relevant body.
Critical literature appraisal on topics relevant to the student’s project.
Experimental design and Project management skills.
Analysis of data, using appropriate statistical methods where required.
Report writing in the scientific format of a thesis.
Critical evaluation of data to judge its significance and develop conclusions from these results.
Development of poster for presentation of results and conclusions of research project.
Indigenous Australia – Cultural Awareness and Contribution to a discipline in science Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 500 words 20 N Individual N  Report 5000 Words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 1,000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Reflection 1 hour 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture, Testamur Major (T108) Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068) Sustainable Water Futures, Testamur Major (T152)