Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7011 Experimental Design and Analysis PG A Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401266 Coordinator Bill Price Opens in new window Description Experimental Design and Analysis can be taken independently or in combination in Autumn (Experimental Design and Analysis PG A) and/or Spring (Experimental Design and Analysis PG B) semesters. Working closely with their assigned supervisor(s), students in the health, medical, biomedical and natural sciences will enhance their expertise in experimental methodologies and knowledge of advanced discipline-specific concepts in the first year of the Masters of Research. Completion of one these two units will allow students to demonstrate theoretical and practical skills directly relevant to their proposed research project. Completion of both units will allow students to build upon initial results, and to gain experience in additional methodologies and experimental techniques. These units will also complement the Master of Research core units Research Design 1 and 2, providing a foundation for students to formulate their research question and thesis proposal. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects NATS 7010 - Experimental Design and Analysis PG NOTE Co-Requisite units removed from Spring 2021 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Report the outcome(s) of an experimental and/or research project through the production of data that meets accepted standards in that field of research
Describe and report on the integration of experimental and theoretical knowledge at an advanced level through the writing of a research report
Communicate research findings to an informed but non-specialist audience
Apply the outcomes of the research project to the development of a research question and/or thesis proposal in Year 1 of the Master of Research Subject Content 1. Research training (advanced skills training appropriate to the field of research)
2. Experimental/research design: planning a research project
3. Interpretation of results
4. Reporting research results Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Students involved in research work with human subjects will need to consult with supervisors regarding any compulsory training or background checks that might be required. Note: Corequisite subjects removed from Spring 2021. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 4,000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 min plus 5 min question time 30 Y Individual Y  Proposal Form-based submission (assessment will be based on feasibility of the project) 10 Y Individual Y  Participation Form-based submission 20 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Bill Price Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)