Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1062 Introduction to Indigenous Australia: Peoples, Places and Philosophies (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700320 Coordinator Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the rich diversity: past, present and future of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in Australia with emphasis placed on the importance of identity, diversity, representation and resilience. You will engage directly with Indigenous sources and learn to critically analyse content from Indigenous Standpoints. Presenting as a challenging and thought-provoking experience of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, places and philosophies, this subject provides a solid theoretical foundation of Indigenous perspectives for the knowledges and professional practices in your chosen field. School Social Sciences Discipline Indigenous Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1020 - Working with Communities AND
CULT 1021 - Working with Communities (WSTC) AND
HUMN 1060 - Introduction to Indigenous Australia Peoples Places and Philosophies Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in Extended Diploma College programs must have passed 40 credit points of the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject.
Students enrolled in Integrated Diploma/Bachelor programs must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline the history of Indigenous Australia since British colonisation.
Discuss the social, cultural and political situations and circumstances that challenge contemporary Indigenous Australia.
Explain societal misconceptions, ideas, attitudes and assumptions about Indigenous Australia.
Discuss the importance of core concepts including identity, diversity, representation and resilience.
Adopt a socially and culturally responsive personal and professional approach to Indigenous Australia. Subject Content 1. Indigenous Research Matters: Reading, writing and terminology 
2. Indigenous Worlds: Where do you stand?
3. An historical timeline: tracing major events from pre-colonisation to today 
4. Contemporary Indigenous Identities  
5. Indigenous Land and Country 
6. Indigenous spaces and places
7. Indigenous people and the arts: representation and narrative 
8. Interrogating ‘Closing the gap’ and other policies in relation to Indigenous social determinants
9. Indigenous people and intersectionality 
10. Racism and Privilege
11. Working in Indigenous contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Case Study a. Case Study Outline (10%) (200 words)
b. Case Study Final Submission (30%) (1,000 words) 40 N Individual N  Essay a. Essay Plan (10%) (300 words)
b. Reflective Essay (40%) (1,200 words) 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice (exit only) (7032) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) (exit only) (7167) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)