Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 2009 Multiliteracies Credit Points 10 Coordinator Susan Barclay Opens in new window Description This subject develops students’ skills, knowledge and competencies to address a wide range of literacies across multiple technologies, platforms and contexts. In any society there are a range of literacies, and contexts in which those literacies might be deployed. These include the digital, written, visual, aural, spatial, gestural, and tactile dimensions of meaning production. Multiliteracies go beyond the traditional textual models of literacy to describe the rich variety of cognitive and cultural tools we use to make sense of the everyday. Multiliteracy is key to our professional and personal effectiveness, as well as to our functioning as individuals and citizens in a world characterised by increasing dependency on information technologies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM2050 Multiliteracies Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Students will learn to identify multiliterate practices and multimodal texts
2. Engage critically with, and reflect upon, a range of multimodal texts (considering contexts which may include multisensory media, scientific, technological and/or AI modes of communication)
3. Analyse the ways in which scientific disciplines and cultural diversity shape literate practices by the application of different knowledges, approaches, orientations, attitudes and values
4. Work collaboratively with peers to investigate a real-world problem using multiliteracies and propose solutions. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,250 words approx   combined word length — or word equivalent where submission of findings are made in another format (viz. audio or visual or online artefact creation) 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1,250 words approx   combined word length — or word equivalent where submission of findings are made in another format (viz. audio or visual or online artefact creation) 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project Report (1,000 words or equivalent in audio/video duration, or online artefact creation) and Teamwork Skills self-evaluation (500 words) 30 N Group Y  Peer Review 500 words 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts A subject reader of short essential reading resources selected by the subject coordinator/s. May be provisioned online, or as hardcopy (printed). Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Susan Barclay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Susan Barclay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Susan Barclay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (1706) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of International Studies (1658) Communication and Media (COMM) Creative and Visual Communication, Minor (0337) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (6005) Other information Technology (INFO)