Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3116 Emergency and Disaster Management Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jawed Nader Opens in new window Description Over the last five decades, the world has experienced historically significant disasters, including natural (e.g. earthquake and tsunami), human-induced (wars or ethnic conflicts) and climate impacts, requiring concerted international efforts to support populations at risk. This subject explores the causes and consequences of disasters and the application of international guidelines which govern humanitarian responses. It examines theoretical approaches to disaster management, its geo-political dimensions, and the community-led Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) programs that increasingly drive local preparedness. Real-world case studies engage students in critical thinking and improve their knowledge of the humanitarian charter and core humanitarian standards, and the practical challenges of interagency coordination in emergencies. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 2017 - Complex Emergencies and International Guidelines Learning Outcomes Describe different types of natural and human-induced disasters and phases of emergencies
Analyse theoretical frameworks to explain the causes of emergencies and assess their applications in various emergency contexts
Articulate the principles of disaster preparedness and mitigation
Analyse factors and activities associated with various types of disasters
Identify key players in emergency response and management, their roles and challenges they face
Apply major international guidelines and standards that govern humanitarian responses and assess enabling and disenabling factors associated with the adherence to such standards
Analyse challenges and ethical dilemmas associated with various emergency scenarios Subject Content 1. Disasters: Definition, typology, and evolution 2. The right to humanitarian aid: International laws guiding humanitarian response 3. Theoretical foundations of disasters 4. Principal of disaster prevention, preparedness, mitigation and sustainability 5. Phases of emergency management and the relief-development continuum 6. Anatomy of disaster response 7. Core humanitarian standard on quality and accountability 8. The SPHERE project: humanitarian charter and minimum standards 9. Key challenges and dilemmas during humanitarian response 10. Militarization and politicization of humanitarian assistance 11. Case studies and lessons learned: Somalian civil war and South-East Asian Tsunami Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 150 words per week (1-8) 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jawed Nader Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Humanitarian Preparedness and Response, Major (0094) Humanitarian and Development Studies, Major (0332) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)