Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3010 Creative Industries Professional Project or Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102433 Coordinator Rachel Morley Opens in new window Description Creative Industries Professional Project or Internship will allow students to work with Creative Industries practitioners in a 'real world' context. Students will collaborate with an industry partner, applying design thinking to achieve creative solutions within an internship placement or develop their own creative industry project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Creative Industries or associated double degrees. Students must have successfully completed 160 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explore the relationship between discipline area and its contribution to creative industries and broader society.
Undertake appropriate critical thinking.
Use design thinking to solve challenges identified in the workplace and/or community setting.
Present a professional profile.
Demonstrate integrated disciplinary knowledge and skills in a workplace and/or project context. Subject Content Professional profile creation
Applied skills within industry of major/sub-major
Critical and design thinking
Applied problem solving
Creative application
Innovation and collaboration Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 250 words plus 1min video 15 N Individual N  Professional Task 300 words  10 N Individual N  Professional Task 1500 words/equivalent 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rachel Morley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009)