Academic Handbook Current Edition PHYS 1006 Physics 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300829 Coordinator Allan Torres Opens in new window Description This subject develops a deeper understanding of physics for students pursuing courses in nanotechnology, chemical, physical and mathematical sciences. Topics covered include Mechanics: Equilibrium, stress and strain, harmonic oscillators, rotational motion, moment of inertia. Gravitation, types of force in nature. Thermal Physics: temperature, specific & latent heat, heat transfer, kinetic theory of gases, first law of thermodynamics, isothermal, isobaric & adiabatic processes. Introduction to Modern Physics: special relativity, time dilation, length contraction, momentum, mass, rest energy, velocity addition. Basic quantum theory, Planck's hypothesis, wave nature of matter, quantum mechanical view of atoms. Nuclear physics, radiation, half-life, nuclear reactions. School Science Discipline Physics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6150 - Physics 2 Assumed Knowledge HSC 2 Unit Physics or one semester of university level Physics or equivalent plus HSC 2 Unit Mathematics Band 4 (Not General Mathematics) or one semester of university level Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Analyse the description of a physical problem, for the topics listed in the contents, and apply a frame of reference or other appropriate mathematical framework to the problem
Explain the physical principles by writing down appropriate equations or other mathematical models such as a geometrical construct to produce a mathematical model of the physical problem
Identify known and unknown variables in a mathematical model of a physical problem and manipulate the model to predict unknown variables
Interpret results of calculations in terms of real physical world events
Record, present and analyse experimental data
Estimate the errors in a measurement and propagate the effects of these errors through simple calculations Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4x 15 minute quizzes 20 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 80 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Practical 3hr lab classes in alternate weeks  30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Allan Torres Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Physics and Astronomy (PHYS) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119)