Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3048 Speech Pathologists Working with Children, Families and Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401427 Coordinator Areej Asad Opens in new window Description This subject utilises a problem-based learning approach to explore assessment, management and measurement of change in complex cases of communication and mealtime disorder in children. Authentic case scenarios of paediatric clients will encourage students to integrate theoretical knowledge, clinical reasoning, and practical speech pathology skills to plan and evaluate approaches to working with children, their families and the communities in which they live. Individual, targeted and universal intervention strategies will be addressed within the context of collaborative, family centred philosophy. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2020 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3049 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology or 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) Assumed Knowledge Students undertaking this subject need a sound understanding of assessment and management of paediatric communication disorders. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the clinical utility and effectiveness of individual, targeted and universal assessment and intervention strategies in Speech Pathology Practice
Design an assessment of communication and swallowing for a paediatric client
Implement an assessment of communication and swallowing for a paediatric client, at developing level competency
Integrate, analyse and interpret assessment information to diagnose the nature and severity of a communication and/or swallowing/mealtime disorder
Formulate intervention plans to address disorders of communication and/or swallowing /mealtime disorder in paediatric clients using best available evidence
Implement and evaluate speech pathology intervention to address disorders of communication and/or swallowing /mealtime in paediatric clients, at developing level competency
Create professional, clinical resources to support delivery of Speech Pathology services to paediatric clients, their families and communities. Subject Content 1. Family centred practice
2. Individual, targeted and universal assessment and intervention strategies in paediatric Speech Pathology practice
3. Community capacity building and advocacy
4. Assessment and diagnosis of communication and swallowing/mealtime disorder in children
5. Planning and implementation of evidence based intervention for communication and swallowing/mealtime disorder in children
6. Evaluation of evidence based intervention for communication and swallowing/mealtime disorders in children
7. Prevention, advocacy and education about evidence based approaches to optimise communication and swallowing/mealtimes for children
8. Discussions about dosage; Form, Frequency, Intensity, Duration
9. Working with children for whom English is an Additional Language or Dialect (EAL/D)
10. Working with interpreters, translators and communication advocates and supports
11. Understanding childhood onset disability (e.g. Cerebral palsy, Developmental Disability; Autism Spectrum Disorder; Intellectual Disability; Specific Learning Disorder; Genetic and Chromosomal Disorders)
12. Neuroprotection, Neuroplasticity, Motor Learning
13. Craniofacial anomalies
14. Management of paediatric feeding in community contexts
15. Speech Pathology service delivery in schools; local, state and national perspectives and contexts
16. Speech Pathology service delivery in the context of the National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio Two PBL cases S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio Two PBL cases + 2 individual clinical resources 40 Y Individual Y  Simulation 1 hour 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Kelman, E., & Nicholas, A. (2020). Palin Parent-Child Interaction Therapy for Early Childhood Stammering (Second edition.). Taylor and Francis. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781351122351 Rotfleisch & Martindale. (2021). Listening and Spoken Language Therapy for Children With Hearing Loss Valley (2020). Colourful Semantics: A Resource for Developing Children’s Spoken and Written Language Skills Paperback McLeod, S., & Baker, E. (2017). Children's speech: An evidence-based approach to assessment and intervention. Boston: Pearson. McMurray, J.S., Hoffman, M.R., & Braden, M.N. (Ed.) (2020). Multidisciplinary management of paediatric voice and swallowing disorders. Springer International Publishing.
eBook ISBN 978-3-030-26191-
DOI 10.1007/978-3-030-26191-7
Hardcover ISBN 978-3-030-26190-0 Onslow, M. (2018). Stuttering and its treatment: Eleven Lectures. University of Sydney. Available from: https://www.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/2018-10/Stuttering%20and%20its%20Treatment%20-%20Eleven%20Lectures%20April%202018_0.pdf Paul, R., Norbury, C., & Gosse, C. (2018). Language disorders from infancy through adolescence: Listening, speaking, reading, writing and communicating (5th ed.). St Louis, United States: Elsevier, Health Sciences Division. Pindzola, R., Plexico, L.W. & Haynes, W.O. (2016). Diagnosis and evaluation in speech pathology (9th ed.). Boston: Pearson Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Ellie Sugden Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)