Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 0012 Business Studies (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900023 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop an understanding of some of the key concepts, relationships and principles underpinning the operations of business in modern societies.  It is also designed to develop a degree of competence in a suite of skills to prepare students for undergraduate study in business and to enable them to act responsibly and effectively in the local and global business environment. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 0011 - Business Studies (WSTC Prep) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and describe key business concepts.
Explain the nature, role and organisational structure of businesses.
Explain core and supporting business functions.
Describe the impact of internal and external factors on business operations.
Report on the operations of a selected business. Subject Content 1. Introduction to Business - the purpose, changing global context, and economic, social and ethical responsibilities of businesses.
2. Business organisations - forms of ownership, small businesses and entrepreneurship.
3. Management - functions of management, organisational structures and corporate culture.
4. Human resources - planning, recruiting and selecting staff, compensation, training and performance appraisal.
5. Marketing - concepts, strategies, branding, advertising, the basics of distribution and selling.
6. Social media and E Business - importance of social media, social media tools, e-business models
7. Information systems - basics of management information systems, importance of recording accounting information, reading basic financial statements and active financial management. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 3 x 300 words per submission = 900 words in total 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 ½ hours 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,250 words 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)