Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 5002 Sustainability Economy Credit Points 10 Coordinator Heath Spong Opens in new window Description What does it mean to live and work sustainably? There are many ways to ensure that businesses, communities and individuals continue to thrive into the future.  This subject explores the evolving concept of sustainability in practice. Students will learn how to view complex policy, business, consumer, and individual performance problems and opportunities through the various lenses of sustainability. Through the application of psychological knowledge on individual values, collective power and impacts on human behaviour, student will develop the skills to implement new practices while also reconciling different aspects of sustainability in their own work or personal context. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Critically engage with the concept of sustainability in a range of business and social contexts, Including from Indigenous perspectives.
Analyse the key role played by both government and consumers in driving sustainable practices.
Reconcile different aspects of sustainability, and the perspectives of different agents, in work and personal contexts.
Propose strategies that respond to the demands of consumers motivated by sustainable practices.
Develop sustainability goals, measures, and strategies, for a business or personal enterprise Subject Content The big picture Sustainability in business Sustainable consumption Doing good: psychological drivers Social responsibility and consumer psychology Challenges and opportunities in application: Special Requirements Essential equipment Computer and internet access Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 500 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Heath Spong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Graduate Certificate in Human and Business Performance (1942)