Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3024 Chinese 305: Chinese Cinema Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100066 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject offers a brief review of Chinese film and introduces some of the best Chinese-language productions of the last two decades from mainland China and Taiwan. Students will be required to work individually and in groups to critique the social and moral issues raised in these films. They will also consider the historical context from which these films emerged. This process will develop a deeper understanding of Chinese society and the lives of Chinese people of different eras. It will also enhance students' appreciation of Chinese cultural identity and moral values. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes Demonstrate understanding of the historical, social and political contexts of chinese films and filming
Demonstrate their understanding of Chinese society and of Chinese people in the different eras depicted in the films studied
Critique Chinese cultural identity and the moral values reflected in the films, and consider them critically from an East-West perspective
Build capacities in screen language and film arts
Identify stylistic differences of specific directors
Critically comment on the thematic and artistic aspects of a film, and on the social and moral issues it raises Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10-15 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 - 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)