Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 3006 Incubator 7: Growth and Exit Strategies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301172 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description Startups must plan for both business growth and exit from the business. In this final incubator subject students will explore, analyse, evaluate and select from a range of suitable growth and exit strategies. This includes deciding whether their own or a live case study business will grow organically or will require a fast growth model and rapid expansion. Students will also need to consider possible exit strategies (such as initial public offering (IPO), trade sales or personal redundancies). At the completion of the subject, students will have developed a future growth plan with possible exit strategies. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1.Analyse business growth areas and competition through market research. 
2.Outline implications associated with expansion options and exit strategies from relevant perspectives including legal, risk management and sustainability. 
3.Provide a convincing, compelling case for growth and exit strategy. 
4.Develop social capital through interactions with peers, individuals and organisations in the entrepreneur ecosystem.
5.Apply communication and collaboration skills to complete tasks in a timely and ethical manner. Subject Content Strategies for business growth 
Sustainable growth strategies 
Risk management 
Exit strategies
Founder at exit
Preparing to exit
Exit Conditions and Governance and Stakeholders
Pitching for successful growth/exit Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 7 minute video   and 1000 words self assessment 30 N Group N  Reflection Option1:  7 minutes   OR  Option 2:  7 minutes self-reflection video 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)