Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7071 Introduction to Alterations in Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401458 Coordinator Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window Description The primary focus of this subject is the application of the National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards related to regional, national and global Health Priorities .  This introduction to Alterations in Health utilises an evidence-based approach to develop an understanding of pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and justification of appropriate safe nursing care of people across the lifespan who are experiencing acute, but usually resolvable alterations in their health. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 3040 - Foundations of Nursing Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, immunity, wound healing, infection control, basic concepts in pharmacology and
pathophysiology and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret physiological changes associated with alterations in health across contexts of nursing practice
Extrapolate best evidence to support decision making for safe person-centred care
Implement appropriate nursing assessment and person-centred care during the perioperative period 
Prioritise nursing care for a person experiencing an alteration in health and the ability to justify decision making
Substantiate the safe and effective use of pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions for a person experiencing an alteration in health
Critical reflect on the Australian National Priority Areas as they relate to person centred care Subject Content 1. Pathophysiology and pharmacology related to:
  a. gastrointestinal,
  b. musculoskeletal
  c. reproductive systems
  d. injury prevention and control
2. National Safety and Health Priority areas:
  a. Injury Prevention and Control
  b. Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Conditions
  c. Cancer Control
3. Principles of nursing care related to:
  a. NMBA Registered Nurse standards for practice
  b. Best Practice Guidelines
  c. Hospital policies and procedures
  d. Diversity, culture, inclusion, and cultural safety for all people
  e. Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality    practice
4. Factors influencing nursing care in the pre and post-operative period:
  a. Deterioration
  b. Complications
  c. Signs and symptoms
5. National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards related to perioperative nursing care
6. Pharmacology in the pre and postoperative period:
  a. Analgesics
  b. Antibiotics
  c. Anti-inflammatory agents
  d. Specific condition related treatments
7. Non-pharmacological comfort measures Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 2 (15% each) 30 N Individual Y  Poster 600 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Gift Mutsonziwa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)