Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2011 From Corroborees to Curtain Raisers (Day Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101754 Coordinator Kate Richards Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with an understanding of the historical framing and cultural re-framing of Indigenous Australians in the live arts. Students will be provided with a theoretical understanding of the politics of representation through examining and reflecting on the transitional shifts that Indigenous artists' have made from: cultural performance to theatre productions; 'traditional' storytelling to telling of stories through poetry and writing; ceremonial sounds to music and spoken word performance; documentary film to screen based drama to exploring new technologies and moving image performance. Students will be introduced to a variety of Indigenous artists and their creative works. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Performing Arts Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in the currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline the historical framing and cultural re/framing of Indigenous Australians in the live arts;
Identify the different live art forms Indigenous people are exploring;
Explain the various ways Indigenous artists in the live arts contribute significantly to Australian society;
Describe the politics of representation as it relates to Indigenous artists in the live arts;
Critically reflect on the politics of representation as it relates to Indigenous people engaging with new creative art forms. Subject Content The subject draws on key theoretical and analytical frameworks for understanding the importance, impact and processes of Indigenous Performance Arts in Australia: The significance and processes whereby Indigenous performance arts contribute to cultural wellbeing and other intangible and tangible outcomes. 
Indigenous concepts of Story, Country and Power and how they are variously explored, treated and presented through performance arts across diverse media forms. 
Selected examples of Australian Indigenous performance arts in song, music, dance and drama across media forms including screen, social media and XR. 
Understanding of the politics of identity/’aboriginality’/’indigeneity’ Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1000 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation In class presentation 35 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kate Richards Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kate Richards Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Indigenous Australian Studies, Major (0015) Indigenous Australian Studies, Minor (0015) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Performing Arts (PERF) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)