Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3082 Special Study in Languages and Linguistics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100201 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description This Level 3 Languages and Linguistics subject is, primarily, a self-study subject designed to cater for a special area of interest in languages and linguistics not otherwise covered in the subjects on offer in the languages program or in the BA (Interpreting and Translation) and/or where the student may otherwise find it difficult to complete his or her program of study. Once the topic chosen by the student is approved by the Subject Coordinator a supervisor is nominated and an individually-tailored learning contract, including appropriate language-specific and/or linguistics readings and tasks, is drawn up in collaboration with the supervisor and is submitted to the Subject Coordinator for approval. This approval process should happen, ideally, at least one week prior to the beginning of the teaching semester. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Permission from the subject Coordinator or Academic program Advisor is required. A Rule Waiver is required to enrol in this subject. Assumed Knowledge Level 3 Languages and Linguistics subjects or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of a selected topic in humanities, languages, linguistics, literature, translation or language education.
Develop, negotiate and plan for the implementation and evaluation of a small-scale research project.
Demonstrate basic research skills such as writing a literature review, basic research methodology and critical evaluation of research.
Apply independent research skills to achieve further personal development. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 - 1,200 words 35 N Individual N  Report 1,800 - 2,000 words 65 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)