Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3017 Australian Indigenous History from Federation to Reconciliation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101872 Coordinator Timothy Rowse Opens in new window Description This subject aims to explore the history of the relationship between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians from Federation (1901) to the present.  At the beginning of the twentieth century, Australia became a nation without paying much attention to the first Australians.  It was widely assumed that they would die out or at least remain an insignificant welfare problem.  Instead, these first Australians survived and grew as a minority population; they also increasingly made themselves heard as a people - so successfully that in 2008 the Parliament of Australia felt obliged formally to apologise for their years of mistreatment.  This subject highlights two stories: the non-Indigenous transition from complacency to engagement, and the survival and increasing political effectiveness of the descendants of Australia's first peoples. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Indigenous Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: describe and date the principal changes in public policy towards Aborigines over the period 1901-2010
identify the regional diversity of colonial structures and of Indigenous Australian's experiences
contextually interpret primary sources
critically appraise historical controversy Subject Content . The political, constitutional and economic position of Indigenous Australians in 1901
. Queensland's 1897- early 1920s
. The ideology and practice of 'protection'
. The rise of Aboriginal critics
. Torres Strait: industry and ethnic difference
. 1937 - the impossibility of a national policy
. Aborigines and TSIs in World War Two - a new deal?
. Assimilation in theory and practice
. Indigenous responses to assimilation
. The 1967 referendum
. Inclusion of Aborigines and TSIs in welfare state
. Land rights
. Remembering and debating 'the Stolen Generations'
. How the High Court rewrote Australian history
. The contested meanings of 'reconciliation' Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)