Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0055 Essential Communication for Social Science (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window Description The ability to communicate efficiently and effectively is crucial in all aspects of professional life. This subject is designed to support Extended Diploma of Social Science students in their transition to university by enhancing their English proficiency and capacity to achieve academic success. The subject assists students to comprehend professional texts, identify key ideas and evidence, and identify and apply certain rhetorical moves which are common in academic and professional communication in the field of Social Science. It also aims to help students to improve grammatical skills that relate to academic writing, summarise information, and demonstrate the importance of academic integrity to inform future academic, disciplinary, and professional practice. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in The College in the programs listed: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Use a range of listening strategies to comprehend texts common in the field of Social Science.
Use a range of reading strategies to comprehend texts common in the field of Social Science.
Summarise the relevant and specific features of social scientific texts.
Use evidence to support ideas and follow Social Scientific referencing conventions.
Communicate clearly using features of academic writing.
Communicate orally in formal contexts. Subject Content Understanding academic and professional communication in the field of Social Science
Listening in an academic context: active listening and note-taking skills
Reading skills: understanding meaning from context
Reading skills: identifying and highlighting key ideas, arguments and evidence
Writing skills: identify and apply foundational features of academic and professional language
Writing skills: summarising and paraphrasing, 
Writing skills: grammar, sentence and paragraph structure
Writing skills: achieving coherence and cohesion
Academic integrity skills: citation and paraphrasing skills
Public speaking and professional presentation of ideas Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 300 words 15 N Individual N  Essay 2a. Essay Draft: 300 words (15%); 2b. Essay: 1,000 words (35%) 50 N Individual N  Presentation 6 minutes 35 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Language and Literature (LANG)