Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 3001 Tourism, Events and Technology Credit Points 10 Coordinator Donna James Opens in new window Description This subject explores the ways in which digital technologies are reshaping travel, including travellers’ experiences, and planning and management of the travel industry. Students will learn how digital technologies are being utilised, and the opportunities and challenges these technologies present. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with travel apps, virtual/augmented reality technologies, smart attractions and transport technologies. Students will also learn how to conceptualise and pitch their own digital travel products. Upon completion of the subject, students will be well placed to develop and manage innovative, socially responsible travel and mobility technologies. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3079 - Travel in the Digital Age Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points of study. Learning Outcomes Evaluate opportunities for the use of digital technologies in travel, tourism and events.
Evaluate potential challenges, threats and social-inequalities created by social technologies.
Critically review digital travel,  tourism and event technologies.
Ascertain technology gaps in the travel, tourism and event industries.
Devise new travel, tourism and event technologies.
Propose digital technologies to an expert audience. Subject Content The digital disruption of tourism, travel and events;
Rethinking tourism and event communities and stakeholders in relation to the digital futures of work and society;
Opportunities, benefits, challenges and risks of digital technologies in travel, tourism and events;
Travel, tourism and events smartphone applications and their design and development;
Digitally enhanced attractions, destinations and events (including digital interpretation, and the use of augmented and virtual reality);
Digital travel experiences, destinations, events and festivals;
The future of transport and transit (including autonomous cars/buses/trains/planes, windowless planes, digital airports/hotels); and
Opportunities for understanding tourist, events and festival markets with digital technology (including tracking and ethical/privacy implications). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes (500 words equivalent, per person) 20 N Group N  Critical Review 1000 words per group member 40 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Donna James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Festival and Event Management, Major (0306) Festival and Event Management, Minor (0306) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303) Tourism (TOUR) Tourism Management, Major (0302) Tourism Management, Minor (0302)