Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 7004 Advanced Mobile Robotics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301020 Coordinator Gu Fang Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop an understanding of Mobile Robotics, encompassing fundamental concepts such as mobile robot mechanics, localisation, map building, and path planning. Additionally, the subject will introduce diverse sensors and their applications in the field of mobile robotics. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical And Industrial Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program OR in 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies. Assumed Knowledge Some basic skills in computer programming, such as MATLAB and C++. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Model different types of mechanical structures of mobile robots.
Solve issues of localisation in mobile robots.
Examine the map building and path planning techniques used in mobile robotics.
Evaluate various sensors and assess their applications in mobile robots. Subject Content 1. Mechanics of Mobile robots
2. Localisation, map-building and path planning
3. Sensors and sensing techniques.
4. Recent development in mobile robots Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 3x 2hrs 20 N Individual N  Quiz 3x0.5hr 30 N Individual N  Report Report is limited to 15 pages max. 30 N Group/Individual N  Report Report is limited to 15 pages max. 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical and Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T112) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T063) Telecommunication and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T115)