Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 7006 Legal Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201064 Coordinator Zaky Orya Opens in new window Description This subject provides an internship opportunity for Juris Doctor students to be placed in host organisations (including NGOs and public interest organisations, community legal centres, government departments, corporations, barristers' chambers or private law firms). 
Internships provide students with invaluable access to opportunities to critically analyse the law in context, to apply their formal learning about legal principles, to demonstrate professional skills and to gain exposure to different career pathways. 
Students who successfully complete the orientation requirements will spend twelve days throughout the semester at a host organisation. This will usually be done on a one- day (7 hours) per week basis.
An intern's duties will generally consist of a combination of substantive tasks relating to law, policy and practice. Depending on the host organisation, these may include a combination of research, preparing background materials, briefing papers or research reports, liaising with other organisations, assisting in the provision of legal assistance and advice, observing interviews with clients, conferences with Counsel or in court proceedings, undertaking project and advocacy work, preparing/ giving presentations and assisting with administrative and editing work. 
The School will seek expressions of interest for the number of placements available with the School's partner host organisations each semester. 
Students are also able to arrange their own internships at organisations that are not currently host organisations, subject to the approval of the Director / Principal Solicitor and the agreement of the host organisation to complete the attendance and assessment requirements of the subject. School Law Discipline Legal Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7072 AND
LAWS 7048 AND
LAWS 7047 AND
LAWS 7066 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3077 Legal Internship Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 2826 Juris Doctor program. This subject is not available for self-select enrolment. Due to its popularity intake in the subject will be restricted to expressions of interest. GPA and progression in program will be considered. Students must have successfully completed 80 credit points of Juris Doctor core subjects, including the four prerequisite subjects before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate law, the Australian legal system and process in practical contexts, including the perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples.
Effectively apply the principles and processes of legal reasoning in a practical context.
Demonstrate the ability to perform tasks in a professional legal context.
Assess ethical issues arising in legal practice and the professional responsibilities of lawyers in promoting justice and service to the community.
Critically reflect on professional development experiences and needs for ongoing improvement. Subject Content 12 days of practicum learning exposing interns to the internal workings of legal practice
Ethical client- centred practice
Reflective legal practice
Professional communication and interpersonal skills for the client-centred lawyer
Critical analysis of the operation of the law, policy and the legal system, including the operation of the law in relation to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students will need a Criminal Record Check and Working With Children’s Check if working with minors during their placement, or as required by the relevant host organisation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 7 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 12 days S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 3 x 600 words S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zaky Orya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Zaky Orya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST)