Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3020 Chinese 301 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101951 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description This is an advanced Level 3 subject within the Chinese major program, designed for students who have acquired an intermediate level of proficiency, and who wish to consolidate and improve their language proficiency and understanding of Chinese culture. It further develops students' proficiency in both spoken and written Chinese, and enhances their comprehension of Chinese language, culture and society. Students are encouraged to express their own opinions in a wide range of social and cultural contexts. Interactive lecture/tutorials, online activities and authentic materials are used to facilitate a positive learning experience. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3058 - Languages and Grammatical Concepts 3A Chinese Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of 40 credit points of Chinese language at Level 2 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes demonstrate a level of lexico-grammatical ability equivalent to, or above stage 5 in productive skills and higher stages in reading comprehension;
express themselves clearly and coherently on general as well as specific topics;
apply different reading and writing skills to different situations for different purposes;
use a range of Chinese cohesive devices and discourse strategies in both speaking and writing;
interact with native speakers in both spoken and written Chinese in a linguistically and culturally appropriate manner;
demonstrate understanding of aspects of Chinese culture and contemporary Chinese society;
use their research and critical-thinking skills developed in the subject to investigate Chinese cultural or social issues and express their opinions. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10-15 minutes for presentation; 1,500 words for portfolio. 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 to 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)