Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3014 Language and Literacy 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102134 Coordinator Ruth Lusty Opens in new window Description This subject will continue the development of students' understandings about language and literacy in a K-6 context. The subject will focus of the area of writing, including literary, factual, media and multi-media texts. Students will develop their theoretical knowledge about the teaching and learning of writing and the relationship between writing, reading, talking and listening. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2012 - Language and Literacy 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain methodologies for the teaching and learning of reading and writing, including emergent literacy and the teaching of spelling and handwriting and using digital technologies and their implications for a range of learners.
Utilise strategies that connect language and literacy to learning in other curriculum areas.
Compare the current NSW English Syllabus, K-6 with the NSW syllabus for the Australian curriculum : English, K-10 Volume 1.including the different text types
Identify resources for Language and Literacy that relate to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives.
Complete a mini unit of work with a literacy focus, with clear outcomes and a plan to implement a coherent sequence of lessons via a range of strategies for the teaching of reading, writing, talking listening and viewing, across the curriculum.
Identify assessment measures to assess children's literacy development against set goals and outcomes.
Utilise appropriate oral and written feedback strategies and techniques. Subject Content 1.??????? Review of reading theory from Language and Literacy 1
2.??????? Theories of literacy development and the NSW syllabus for the Australian Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)