Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2010 Crime Scene Investigation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300873 Coordinator Brenden Riley Opens in new window Description A substantial amount of forensic evidence used in the prosecution of criminal cases is initially established at the crime scene. Recognising, detecting, recovering, preserving and recording this evidence forms a critical function within forensic science and criminal investigation. This subject introduces the student to a range of crime scene practices that provides the knowledge and skill to interpret a complex scene with voluminous detail, into a more specifically targeted range of forensic evidence items. This subject will explore aspects of crime scene investigation including; crime scene processes, recognition of evidence, documentation of crime scenes, evidence detection and enhancement, and maintaining evidence integrity. It also introduces professional practices associated with maintaining evidence integrity and continuity. School Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3589 Bachelor of Science (Forensic Science), 3562 Bachelor of Science (Advanced Science) (Forensic Science) or MT3022 Forensic Science and successfully completed 60 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe what constitutes the determination of a crime scene.
Articulate the concepts of the CSI Effect within the criminal justice system.
Apply a range of evidence enhancement and preservation methods.
Apply professional practices associated with maintaining evidence integrity and continuity.
Conduct a complete forensic examination of a crime scene.
Apply a range of field-portable equipment and interpret information provided by these techniques in relation to the crime scene.
Report evidence and conclusions from crime scene investigations accurately and correctly in an appropriate format. Subject Content 1. Crime scene investigation (CSI) principles
2. Scene documentation paradigm involving contemporaneous note taking, sketching and photography
3. Detection, collection and preservation of evidence
4. Documenting identification features in post mortem examinations
5. Application of CSI principles to outdoor scenes
6. Problems that arise from media portrayals of forensic procedures (?eCSI effect?f) within the criminal judicial system
7. Biological evidence
8. Blood reagents and evidence enhancement
9. Presumptive testing of scene evidence, including the use of field-portable equipment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Ca. 300 words, written during a 3-hour practical 
 20 N Both (Individual & Group) N  Quiz 30 questions, 2 minutes per question (1 hour in total)
 30 N Individual N  Simulation 4 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)