Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3013 Cyber Security and Behaviour Placement 2 Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102703 Coordinator Alana Maurushat Opens in new window Description In 2022, this subject replaced by subject INFO3017 - Cyber Security and Behaviour Industry Placement. This subject is the second placement for the work integrated learning embedded in the Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour degree. There are three options: 1. WSU-brokered industry placement on a competitive basis; 2. an approved placement at the student's place of work, or via the student's networks and contacts; 3. an industry project report based on industry-generated case studies and problems.  Students may continue the option chosen for Cyber Security and Behaviour Placement 1, or choose another available option.   Workshops will be conducted throughout the semester to aid in your learning and to support your professional development during this placement or project. Contact the subject coordinator well in advance to elect your own industry placement (such as your current employer).   Only options 2 and 3 are available to WSU Online students. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFO 3012 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1837 - Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour and have successfully completed 140 credit points. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of computer systems, architecture, infrastructure, internet protocols and networking protocols. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate employment skills for a professional career development.
Apply problem solving skills, developed through ethical behaviour to identify potential areas for improvement in the workplace.
Evaluate and report on professional development.
Identify methods for improving organization wide problems and propose solutions. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words  S/US Y Individual Y  Report 2,000 words S/US Y Individual Y  Presentation N/A S/US Y Individual Y Industry Project The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal  750 words  S/US Y Individual   Proposal  750 words  S/US Y Individual   Report  4,000 words (incorporates 1, 2, 3) S/US Y Individual   Presentation  15 minutes  S/US Y Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Other information Technology (INFO)