Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7074 Nursing Practice 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401461 Coordinator Oya Gumuskaya Opens in new window Description Nursing Practice 2 focuses on the development of the role and skills of the registered nurse when providing care for people experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition. A simulated professional task will assist with the development of essential clinical communications and simulated skills assessment and professional experience placement will support clinical skill development. The subject includes 160 hours of Professional Experience Placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7073 Co-requisite(s) NURS 7068 AND
NURS 7066 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body
systems, immunity, wound healing, infection control, basic concepts in pharmacology and
pathophysiology and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Incorporate the National Safety and Quality Health Services Standards to practice safe medication administration in complex clinical scenarios and their application in simulated and clinical learning environments.
Evaluate nursing care plans by monitoring progress towards the expected goals, health outcomes and interdisciplinary interventions.
Communicate and collaborate effectively with people, including members of the interdisciplinary health care team, to facilitate positive health outcomes.
Utilise an evidence-based approach to assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation of nursing care in a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Competently perform safe medication administration, with a focus of non-parenteral and parenteral medications, for people experiencing an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition or illness in a simulated and clinical learning environment.
Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in nursing. Subject Content 1. Preventing and Controlling Healthcare Associated Infections
2. Medication Safety
3. Patient Identification and Procedure Matching
4. Clinical Handover (include ISBAR communication tool)
5. Blood and Blood Products
6. Preventing and managing pressure injuries
7. Preventing falls and harm from falls
8. Assessment, admission procedures and the nursing history
9. Documentation - progress, incidents, escalation, patient safety checklist
10. Recognising and Responding to Variations in Health Status (A to G assessment)
11. Recognising abnormal pathology results
12. Nursing care and management
13. Working in multi-disciplinary teams
14. Clinical practicum
15. Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Essential equipment Students must wear the School of Nursing and Midwifery clinical uniform, including correct fully enclosed ALL black shoes [that meet WHS requirements - Shoes must be low heeled, fully enclosed, non-slip soles (Reeboks, joggers, sandshoes, sneakers, gym shoes, sandals, slippers, ballet shoes, etc. are NOT acceptable.)] to all CPU classes and the clinical placement. The uniform can be purchased from the retail store on campus. Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access Program materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 10 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 160 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Oya Gumuskaya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Oya Gumuskaya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)