Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 1007 Population Health and Society (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700066 Coordinator Ryan Sidoti Opens in new window Description This subject will provide you with foundational concepts and factors relating to population health in our society. The social and environmental determinants of health will be introduced and their roles toward disease, health and wellbeing will be explored. The Australian health care system will be compared with alternative models to examine strengths and challenges in advancing population health. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) Students in programs 6000 or 6001 must have passed or be registered in HLTH0005 and NATS0006 Equivalent Subjects PUBH 1006 - Population Health and Society PUBH 1001 - Dynamics of Health HLTH 1005 - Meanings of Health and Models of Care Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify social and environmental factors that determine health and illness across the lifespan
Outline the relationship between social, environmental and biological determinants and inequitable health outcomes
Compare the advantages and disadvantages of Australian and other health systems
Identify and reflect on personal health risk factors
Communicate effectively about population health issues in both a written and oral format
Critically evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of various health systems;
Critically evaluate roles of various stakeholders in the Australian health system;
Identify and reflect on contemporary issues in the provision of health care;
Analyse the complexities of health and well-being;
Analyse individual and group situations in terms of the social and environmental (including built environment) factors that are relevant to health;
Identify and reflect on personal health risk factors;
Work in groups; and
Communicate effectively about population health issues in both a written and oral format. Subject Content 1.Global, national and regional patterns in the distribution of health, wellbeing, and illness
2.Models of health and health systems
3.Structure and organisation of the Australian health system
4.Emerging trends and issues in the provision of health care and notion of wellbeing
5.Social determinants of health (e.g. socioeconomic status, gender, location, and culture)
6.Environmental determinants of health (e.g. the built environment, and climate change)
7.Biological determinants of health (e.g. sex, age, genetics)
8.Role of social factors and inequity for communicable diseases and non-communicable disease
9.Causes of health inequities, locally and globally
1. Global, national and regional patterns in the distribution of health, wellbeing, and illness
2. Measuring population health ? basic epidemiology
3. Models of health and health systems
4. Structure and organisation of the Australian health system
5. Emerging trends and issues in the provision of health care and notion of wellbeing
6. Social determinants of health (e.g. socioeconomic status, gender, location, and culture)
7. Environmental determinants of health (e.g. urbanization, the built environment, and climate change)
8. Biological determinants of health (e.g. sex, age, genetics)
9. Contemporary issues related to communicable diseases
10. Contemporary issues related to non-communicable diseases (e.g. obesity, substance abuse, heart disease, diabetes and depression)
11. Policy and intervention in population health Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 500 words 25 N Individual N  Case Study 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Quiz 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Participation Over 10 weeks 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ryan Sidoti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ryan Sidoti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Clinical Sciences, Testamur Major (T109) Diploma in Health Science (7018) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (7088) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Extended (7143) Diploma in Health Science Extended (7142) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (6000) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Public Health (PUBH) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110)