Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7030 Professional Internship in Health (Part-time) Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 401435 Coordinator Evan Atlantis Opens in new window Description This is a 40 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (20 credit points in each term). This subject provides students with the opportunity to translate the content of the postgraduate program to the context of the workplace through an integrated workplace internship. This experience will allow the student to develop the necessary skills and competencies expected of high performing health professionals. The Internship enables a focused opportunity to work in contemporary healthcare settings with leaders and managers from a variety of professions. Students will also engage in coursework with a focus on creating a portfolio that revisits all content learned throughout their programs to critically assess their learning journey and learning outcomes. This process will teach students how to systematically self-reflect in deep and transformative ways, engaging with theory and knowledge acquired and developed through their studies to design and create a portfolio of their skills and competencies through a social capital framework. The subject will culminate in a presentation of the results of their internship project. This subject can also be taken over one semester (see HLTH 7026 Professional Internship in Health (Full Time). School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a post-graduate program and have a GPA of 5.5 or greater. Students enrolled in the Master of Public Health or Master of Health Science must have successfully completed 80 credit points. Permission is required for enrolment. Students must submit a CV and cover letter to the subject Coordinator detailing their previous professional experience/background and what they wish to achieve in the internship, including preferred areas of work in health. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critique peer-reviewed literature and identify gaps in current knowledge and practice 2. Demonstrate good analytical skills, strong problem-solving skills and a logical approach to achieving outcomes 3. Plan, manage and deliver a comprehensive applied project or set of related tasks relevant to the health work place. 4. Demonstrate the ability to work cooperatively and effectively within a team environment displaying positive and constructive work behaviours to achieve common goals. 5. Engage in self-analysis to identify factors relevant to supporting life-long learning and ethical professional practice 6. Articulate and implement the principles of reflective practice in personal and professional settings 7. Evaluate personal strengths and their applications to leadership and participation in professional teams 8. Assess ones own capabilities in doing and knowing based on evidence of experience and practice Subject Content 1. Professional experience in selected workplace
2. The reflective practice: Reporting and responding; relating; reasoning; and reconstructing
3. Social capital, habitus, field and practice ? using Bourdieu?fs social capital theory to self-reflect Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Self-Assessment 500 words 10 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Public Health (4702) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Health (HLTH)