Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7053 MSc Research Project (extended) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301372 Coordinator Mark Williams Opens in new window Description This subject extends the research project undertaken in 401156 MSc Research Project into a substantial piece of research work. This subject provides a further opportunity for students to demonstrate that they can consolidate the knowledge acquired through their course of study, understand how existing evidence/information relates to research topics, and how their own work adds to this body of knowledge. The finding of the project will be presented in a thesis and in an oral presentation. On completion of the MSc with this subject, the student should have sufficient research project work to qualify for entry into a PhD program. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) NATS 7033 Restrictions Student must be enrolled in postgraduate program
Students must have completed at least 60 credit points of postgraduate study (level 5 or 6 ) in program 3749 (Master of Science) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Propose an investigation into a problem relevant to a scientific discipline and develop research aims
Critique peer-reviewed literature pertinent to the investigation and evaluate the strengths and weakness of this work
Design and conduct experiments within a project framework to test project aims
Analyse the data from experiments and formulate conclusions
Justify results and conclusions using oral and written communication
Devise possible areas of inquiry for future research or development. Subject Content Critical literature appraisal on a selected paper from literature.
Experimental design and Project management skills.
Analysis of data, using appropriate statistical methods where required.
Report writing in the scientific format of a thesis.
Critical evaluation of data to judge its significance and develop conclusions from these results.
Development of an oral talk for presentation of results and conclusions of research project. Special Requirements Essential equipment Students must supply standard Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as appropriate to their discipline and use PPE and engineering requirements as specified by their risk assessment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 5000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 15 mins 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)