Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3047 Pedagogical Leadership Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102822 Coordinator Melissa Cama Opens in new window Description Early childhood teachers have a significant role in providing the pedagogical leadership required to deliver quality early childhood services for children and families. This subject introduces key concepts of pedagogical leadership which are then applied in other subjects in the course. In this subject students examine a range of theoretical perspectives and approaches to curriculum and analyse the ways different theories and approaches shape pedagogical practices. Students will have opportunities to research contemporary theories of early childhood education, reflect on their own beliefs and values, refine their personal philosophy of teaching and learning, and consider the implications for their future role as pedagogical and educational leaders in early childhood settings. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to Examine and theorise the role of the pedagogical leader in the provision of quality early childhood programs.
Synthesise a range of theoretical perspectives on early childhood education.
Explain the theoretical underpinnings of current Australian legislative frameworks and policy in early childhood education.
Critique the influence of different contexts on curriculum, curriculum approaches and pedagogies.
Examine personal values and beliefs in relation to professional and ethical practice.
Create a personal philosophy of learning and teaching that draws on contemporary theories and research.
Critique a range of perspectives on school readiness and approaches to transition to school and their implications for programs for children aged four and five years. 
Explain the continuum of children’s learning from home and prior to school settings and the early years of school including the implications for practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,200 words 30 N Individual N  Reflection 1,200 words  30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minute presentation  40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Melissa Cama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)