Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2019 Interactive Design: Games Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102272 Coordinator Sarah Waterson Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on game design from an interactive design perspective. Approaches utilising current digital technologies for advanced interactive design are explored. Students will design and produce simple games for mobile and/or desktop delivery. The focus of the subject is about the communication and experience design, rather than technical implementation. Interactive game design examples are examined from the context of shifting production languages, convergent technologies and the design professional contexts. This subject includes game development concepts, platforms, goals and genres, player elements, simple story and character development, gameplay, levels, interface, and the game development process. Students will play games, analyse them, and complete a game design with appropriate documentation. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2018 - Interactive Design ll Assumed Knowledge Computer literacy including working in a networked environment on a Macintosh computer; management, transportation and storage of digital information and digital production processes such as scanning, pdf production and file storage. Skills in design principles: layout, colour and typography. Literacy with image manipulation software - e.g. Photoshop. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of significant aspects of interactive design practice by producing a design document for an interactive game.
Define and implement strategies and research methodologies for producing interactive games within the project work.
Apply an appropriate balance of design, testing, critical reflection and refinement of strategy for interactive design through the production of a simple game.
Critique and evaluate game design to promote effective communication, interactivity, and user experiences through the precedent appraisals within the design document, and the final presentation.
Identify and control relevant media and techniques (including digital technologies and other media and technologies relevant to the documentation of objectives, user needs and strategy) to the production of an interactive screen-based game. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,200 words and design work 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 1,500 words and design work 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 900 word report and design work; 5 minute presentation 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sarah Waterson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Game Design, Minor (0090) Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Screen Media Design, Minor (0204)