Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 4018 Building Design Project 1 (Honours) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301101 Coordinator Mary Hardie Opens in new window Description In this subject, students who have a record of superior performance in the Building Design Management program, will source a suitable design project at their own initiative, to complete as a capstone work which illustrates the skills they have developed throughout their study program. The project will contain a high level of complexity exceeding that of previous building designs produced in the program. Both the complexity level and the number of design constraints will distinguish the project undertaken for this subject from the non-honours stream subject. Diverse stakeholder input on the project's impact will be gathered and assessed. The design solution generated will show mastery of complex design problems which integrate technical knowledge with economic and social responsibility. Superior skill in resolving design conflicts will be demonstrated. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Construction Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) BLDG 3001 Incompatible Subjects BLDG 4001 Building Design Project 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3727 Bachelor of Building Design Management. Assumed Knowledge Students should be familiar with the content from the first three years of the Building Design Management degree, including expertise in CAD, iterative design process and construction technology. Learning Outcomes Generate a design brief for a building project with sufficient detail to make a preliminary judgement on project feasibility.
Analyse the site conditions and construct a performance specification for a building design to a professional standard.
Make the case for particular design decisions which have the effect of limiting some design choices.
Reflect on feedback relating to the proposed sketch design and make responsive changes to demonstrate resolution of stakeholder conflicts.
Illustrate the building design through a fully rendered 3D CAD model which is of professional standard and can be understood by members of the general public.
Argue persuasively for a design solution that you have generated. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 3D CAD model and 500 word explanation 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3D CAD model and 2D drawings 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words 10 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Building (BLDG) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031)