Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 1006 Introduction to Philosophy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101918 Coordinator Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to Western philosophical inquiry: it looks at fundamental questions we have about the way we think of the world around us, and the way we act. It presupposes no prior knowledge of philosophy. We will examine philosophical issues by looking at classic statements from the philosophical tradition. The subject will also help students to develop their skills in writing clear arguments. After completion of the subject students will have a critical understanding of some of the fundamental ideas that shape our thinking and our world. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discern the different major types of philosophical inquiry
Identify major philosophical questions and problems establishing the Western tradition, and the most important philosophers responsible
Exercise sound philosophical reasoning to an undergraduate standard
Analyse opposing philosophical positions to an undergraduate standard
Compose sound philosophical arguments to an undergraduate standard Subject Content . Introduction to the different types of philosophical inquiry
. Introduction to some of the major problems and questions guiding philosophers and establishing the Western Philosophical tradition in ancient and early modern times
. Basic components of philosophical reasoning
. Basic definitions of key philosophical terms, problems of divergent understandings and interpretive differences
. The nature of philosophical argument and dialogue between philosophers of differing philosophical views Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y  Short Answer 50 words S/U N Individual N Prescribed Texts John Cottingham (ed.), Western Philosophy: An Anthology, 3rd edition. Oxford: Blackwell, 2020. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)