Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 2012 Community Sport Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401283 Coordinator Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window Description The subject develops students' knowledge and understanding of the concept of community sports development and its role in addressing key issues of social inclusion, diversity, and health promotion. Students explore local and national Australian policies and initiatives, with a focus on monitoring and evaluating and exploring evidence around the social impact of sport. The module facilitates students' knowledge and understanding of community needs within the context of sport and active recreation. Further, students will propose innovative sport development initiatives and programs where students will design and implement a localised sport development initiative in partnership with a local sport organisation. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) SPRT 1008 Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of the sports industry, and an appreciation of the diverse communities that exist locally and internationally. Learning Outcomes Examine local and national Australian community sports development policies and initiatives
Apply a critical awareness of community sports development practice and the role of community sports development in addressing a wider social agenda
Employ sociological ideas and key concepts to explain relationships between social, economic and cultural factors, and sporting opportunities
Develop a community grant proposal for a community sports development project, and deliver a community sports development project in partnership with a local sport organisation/ government organisation.
Critically explore the concept of monitoring and evaluation in community sport development, and evaluate their own community sport development project. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group Y  Essay 2000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Secondary PDHPE Education (Further Studies), Major (0357) Sport Development, Minor (0254) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)