Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7077 Self-Managed Superannuation and Trusts Credit Points 10 Coordinator Leeanne Hodgson Opens in new window Description This subject equips students with the ability to critically analyse law and policy relating to self-managed superannuation funds and the use of the trust structure, which are essential components for professionals in this area of practice. It provides students with the requisite skills to provide comprehensive financial advice, particularly within the context of an individual being able to choose a superannuation fund or create a self-managed superannuation fund (SMSF). The subject will provide students the opportunity to synthesise areas of law in a practical way that enhances their employability and professionalism. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7053 OR LAWS 7010 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3067 Restrictions Must be enrolled in a School of Law PG program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply advanced communication skills in diverse contexts.
Synthesize relevant sources of law relating to self-managed superannuation and trusts through accessing, evaluating and using relevant information.
Apply theoretical and practical knowledge of self-managed superannuation and trusts to critically analyse and solve complex and novel problems.
Critically reflect on the value of ethical conduct as a professional in work and in civic life. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Ongoing throughout semester 10 N Individual Y  Professional Task Written component- 2200 words. Oral component- 10 minutes 45 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Leeanne Hodgson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Finance and Tax Law, minor (0344) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)