Academic Handbook Current Edition CHEM 0002 Chemistry (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900024 Coordinator Phillip Newman Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the basic concepts required to satisfy the needs of most first year university science courses in both skill and content areas. It is intended that students will gain a greater understanding of the theoretical concepts covered in the course by completing the practical component of the course. Students will also be introduced to professional pathways in science. School Western Sydney The College Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects CHEM 0001 - Chemistry (WSTC Prep) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Foundation Studies program at The College. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and describe professional pathways in science.
Use the periodic table to make predictions about the physical and chemical properties of elements and the compounds they form
Use equations to calculate relative quantities of reactants and products.
Describe the factors that influence the type and rate of chemical reactions.
Apply simple stoichiometric relationships.
and analyse first and second hand data from scientific investigations and draw conclusions. This can be demonstrated by second hand data analysis in the intra session exams and final exam and by gathering first hand data in the practicals and writing up the practical reports.
Use appropriate terminology and reporting styles to communicate information and understanding Subject Content 1. Introduction to the science learning community.
2. Professional pathways in science.
3. Redox - Electron transfer, oxidation states, half-equations, balanced redox equations, reduction potentials.
4. Periodic Table - Arrangement of elements, electronic configuration, physical and chemical properties, groups 1,2,7 and 8, metals/non-metals, solids, liquids and gasses, trends in periodic properties.
5. Chemical Bonding - Types of bonds, metallic, covalent and ionic, properties of substances, polarity, forces between molecules.
6. Chemical Reactions - Why substances react, the rate of reaction, chemical equations.
7. Quantities in Chemical Reactions - Reacting quantities, the mole concept, and solids, gasses and solutions.
8. Acids and Bases - properties and reactions of acids, pH, volumetric analysis, Lowry-Bronsted theory, weak acids and bases.
9. Equilibrium - Dynamic equilibrium, equilibrium constant - position and effect of temperature, Ka, pH and K. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 500-700 words 20 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1 hour each 30 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 400 words each for 3 of the 3 practicals 20 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Chemical Sciences (CHEM)