Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3050 Professional Practice Birth - 3 Years Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jane Athota Opens in new window Description Students will complete a 30 day professional experience placement which includes a 10-day placement with children under the age of two years and a 20-day placement with children two – three years of age. Prior to the placement, students will engage in a series of workshops focused on developing their knowledge, skills and pedagogy. In this subject, there is a strong focus on building relationships with children, families and staff as well as adhering to work health and safety and the Australian Children’s Education and Care Quality Authority’s (ACECQA) National Quality Standard. Students will observe and assess children’s play and learning within the socio-cultural context. They will use this knowledge to create and facilitate responsive and engaging play-based experiences that extend and enrich young children’s learning. This subject requires students to apply the principles, practices and outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0). This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 2023 Engaging in Early Childhood Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Education) and have completed 160 credit points before enrolling in this subject Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply professional and ethical practice, including appropriate communication skills, to working with other educators.
Reflect on personal learning and practice, feedback from field-based and university-based supervising teachers and the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers to establish professional goals that will improve practice.
Provide culturally responsive curriculum and pedagogies to ensure continuity of care for children.
Analyse children’s play, learning, relationships and dispositions to identify children’s capabilities and emerging understandings to enhance connections between home, community and education contexts.
Evaluate play-based experiences that have been designed and implemented, and that extend children’s capabilities, interests and funds of knowledge.
Apply the Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0) principles, practices and learning outcomes in documentation, assessment and planning.
Interact with children in ways that support children’s sense of identity and wellbeing, build relationships, guide behaviour and extend learning.
Implement practices that promote children’s health, safety and wellbeing in environments that reflect legal requirements and current recommendations in the areas of health and safety. Subject Content Professional and Ethical Practice
	
Introduction to Australian Professional Standards for Graduate Teachers
The National Quality Standard for Early Childhood Education Care
Legislation and recommendations for children’s health, safety and wellbeing
Work health and safety protocols in early childhood services
Working with the ECA Code of Ethics
Reflective practice – including goal setting
Communication and developing partnerships
Creating a portfolio of work 


Documentation and Assessment of Children’s learning 
	
Documenting family and community experiences and funds of knowledge
Documenting and analysing children’s play, learning, dispositions and relationships
Using Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia (V2.0).as an integral part of the planning cycle
Developing strategies and pedagogies that build relationships, extend learning and guide positive behaviour


Meaningful Curriculum Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days comprised of 10 days supervised placement 1 (under 2 years); 20 days supervised placement 2 (2-3 years). S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance As above S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Jane Athota Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)