Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 2005 Graphic Design: Interactive Digital Media Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102265 Coordinator Sarah Waterson Opens in new window Description Digital technology shapes the way we interact with our world. Design of these interactions is a crucial role for today's designers. This subject will develop students' critical interaction and visual design skills in the digital realm, including interface and experience design. Digital design specific research skills, methods and processes are covered. These include user research, persona development, storyboard development, lo-fi and hi-fi prototyping, wireframes and proof of concept methods. Students will engage with problem-based project briefs, and develop solutions that are appropriate for both client and audience needs across a range of devices. Outcomes include app, web and screen designs. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1021 Assumed Knowledge Students should have skills in producing documents or illustrations using Photoshop and Illustrator. Learning Outcomes Employ a user-centric view in the context of the digital design process
Implement a critical outlook and be able to identify key issues in designing for the digital realm
Utilise a range of methods of describing a designed experience
Define an experience design problem as well as resolve and present that resolution to design team colleagues
Apply interactive design processes and planning methods
Work effectively to produce a designed digital artefact. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Visual design work, lecture notes. Approx. 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Proposal Visual design work, annotations and precedent report. Approx. 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project Visual design work, annotations and brief user report. Approx. 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sarah Waterson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic and Design (DESN) Interactive Analytics, Major (0203)