Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7118 Internship A Credit Points 10 Coordinator Laurel Jackson Opens in new window Description The internship capstone subjects are designed for students who want to gain industry experience and further their studies through project-based learning. Internship A is the first of two capstone subjects that require students to undertake a research project in their chosen field whilst attending an industry-based internship. In Internship A students will identify a business problem, scope a research project that explores the problem and carry out the early stages of the project. This project will be continued, finalised and reported on in BUSM 7119 Internship B. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects BUSM 7012
BUSM 7055 Restrictions Only students enrolled in a postgraduate Business program can enrol in this subject. Students in program 2624 Master of Business (Operations Management) must have completed 60 credit points before undertaking this subject. Students in program 2761 Master of Business Administration must have completed 80 credit points and must obtain permission from the Director of Academic Program before undertaking this subject. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the business environment and organisational structures, business communications skills, business strategy, as well as substantial knowledge in the major discipline area. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify a real business issue within a specific organisation/business.
Reflect on workplace experiences within the internship and make relevant links to key aspects of workplace culture, management and teamwork observed.
Present complex ideas in a discipline-relevant or business context using professional communication skills.
Analyse and interpret secondary data gathered from a range of sources, to assist in defining the business problem. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Business Administration (2761)