Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 2001 Greenhouse Technology for Food Sustainability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301097 Coordinator Zhonghua Chen Opens in new window Description Greenhouses are enclosed structures that optimise temperature, light, water and carbon dioxide to maximise plant production. Also called 'greenhouse horticulture', these advanced systems integrate technologies across disciplines (e.g. horticultural, environmental and material sciences; mechanical engineering and design; robotics and computing programming) to create futuristic indoor environments that increase the quantity and quality of plant-derived foods. Controlled environments can significantly reduce reliance on inputs (fertiliser, pesticide, energy and water) and reduce environmental impacts (including 'food miles'). This subject explores a range of greenhouse technologies in Australia and overseas-from simple low-cost options, through to cutting-edge technology in energy and water-efficient production. Students will observe current status and future trends in the industry to examine how advanced technologies can improve sustainability measures along with the reliability of horticultural output. Students will consider how innovative horticultural enterprises can provide consumers with greater capacity to adopt more sustainable diets. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Assumed Knowledge Students enrolling in this subject should have knowledge of least one of the following subject areas: horticultural production systems; environmental sustainability analytics; technological design and development; consumer behaviour and/or marketing principles; health promotion and/or human nutrition. Learning Outcomes Evaluate and communicate the future of greenhouse horticulture in Australia in comparison to international experience
Identify and articulate key challenges and opportunities (environmental, economic and social) faced by greenhouse horticulture
Explain principles of crop husbandry in the context of greenhouse horticulture
Explain objectives of greenhouse environment management
Analyse, integrate and promote the benefits of technologies employed in greenhouse horticulture
Interpret and communicate wider environmental, social and business impacts of greenhouse horticulture Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied project-
Part A: written proposal 
Part B: presentation Part A (10%): 500 words, Part B (30%): 20 mins presentation 40 N Individual   Industry proposal 1-page plan plus 15 mins audio-visual 40 N Individual   Examination 2 hours 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Natural Science, Major (0213) Social Sciences, Major (0216)