Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 7005 Industry Project (Extended) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301362 Coordinator Zhonghua Chen Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will undertake a more in depth investigation of the project undertaken in 301361Industry Project. Students will extend their use of project based methodologies to solve the problem identified in the pre-requisite subject 301361 Industry Project for a protected cropping industry partner. Students will extend their skills in planning, implementing, collecting and analysing data, reporting on the industry project and reflecting on what has been learned in the context of their personal and professional development and how this can be used in future career. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HORT 7004 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Report regularly on the project to the chosen industry partner and supervisor
Review, revise and reflect on the project management milestones
Present and analyse the results from the extended industry project
Evaluate the research work through application of self-assessment criteria and standards
Provide constructive feedback to others through application of peer-assessment criteria and standards
Critically review the way the study was undertaken, and reflect on lessons learned about themselves in the role of student researcher
Reflect on this project and other work as part of the program to develop plans and tools for future study, research or employment
Communicate the project results to the protected cropping industry Subject Content Developing a full project plan based on Industry Project work.
Collecting data
Analysing data
Report writing and presenting data
Presenting a project report
Reflecting on learning from undertaking a work place integrated industry project
Personal and professional development – including development of critical/reflective abilities, the ability to receive and provide objective feedback Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students need to advise the Subject Coordinator of any changes to the Risk Assessment submitted for subject HORT 7004 Industry Project.  Human Ethics reports will be required as part of this subject where approvals were obtained for these in subject HORT 7004 Industry Project. Other reports may be needed for specific projects. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 4,000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  Self-Assessment 1,000 words 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Agriculture, Testamur Major (T108) Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Graduate Diploma in Protected Cropping (3772) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Master of Science (3749) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068)