Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7007 Creativity: Theory and Practice Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102376 Coordinator Sally Macarthur Opens in new window Description Research in communication arts utilises a range of investigative procedures appropriate to the theory and practice of each creative arts discipline. This subject will introduce fundamental research languages, methods, and outcomes relevant to the creative arts disciplines, and encourage students to develop approaches best suited to their theory and practice. Students will write and defend a research proposal and paper for a research program: the subject will enable students to apply a rigorous research framework to their work. Students will engage with a range of significant and critical texts which address the broad implications of practices and theories in creative arts disciplines. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1827 Master of Arts (Creative Arts) or the Master of Research. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and evaluate social, cultural and theoretical contexts for creative and analytic work.
Develop and apply appropriate writing skills for research papers.
Develop and demonstrate appropriate analytic and research skills through collegial discussion.
Develop and demonstrate skills in self-directed, arts-based research, and independent thinking.
Identify the relationship between creativity and theoretical work.
Critique the creative models used in creative arts practice. Subject Content Approaches to creative practice and research
Theories of culture and communication
Visibility and knowledge
Novelty and mimicry
Interfaces and affect
Contemporary aesthetics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Seminar Presentation 20 min oral presentation 10 N Individual   Seminar written paper 2,000 words 20 N Individual   Proposal for Research Paper 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Research Paper 3,000 words 40 N Individual   Collaborative Critical Reflection 20 minute oral presentation 10 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Creative Arts (CART)