Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 3006 Electrical Machines 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300071 Coordinator Jamal Rizk Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the fundamental principles of electrical machines, the principles of electromechanical energy conversion and the operation and analysis of Direct Current (DC) generators and motors, induction motors and synchronous machines. Students apply principles and theory to practical exercises to develop their understanding. The subject also introduces various special purpose electrical machines, such as permanent magnet machines, step motors and reluctance machines for an understanding on different types of machines. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 2010 or
ELEC 3011 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the principles in the operation of DC generators and motors, as well as Induction Motors
Apply machine theory techniques in the calculation of voltages, currents, power, speed and torque.
Outline the difference between AC & DC machines and their use.
Predict the expected responses of electrical machines to the input power.
Describe a machine circuit, calculation of machine parameters, machine efficiency and the losses in an electrical machine.
Identify different methods of speed control of DC motors and ways to control the speed of Induction Motors. Subject Content 1. DC Machines
2. Permanent Magnet/ Brushless Machines
3. Induction Machines
4. Synchoronous Machines.
5. Single-phase Motors
6. Special Machines Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 6x3 hours 20 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1.5 hour 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 3 hours 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035)