Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1001 Business Academic Skills Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200336 Coordinator Nadine Campbell Opens in new window Description This is a foundation subject that addresses academic essay writing skills relevant to business and economic issues. The subject is designed to develop basic student proficiencies such as information collection, analysis and evaluation, and logical reasoning skills. Through the analysis of ethical issues, this subject teaches students to research; reference using the College of Business and Law's Harvard style; analyse data; develop an argument; and write an academic essay. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 1034 - Business Skills and Communication BUSM 1002 - Business Academic Skills (UWSC) BUSM 1003 - Creative Industries Business Academic Skills Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge HSC English or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Analyse assessment tasks to determine requirements and appropriate composition and response;
Undertake library searches and evaluate business and economics literature with regard to explicit and implicit assumptions, logic of arguments and appropriateness;
Organise and analyse information to develop a position and supporting arguments;
Prepare written texts which are well structured, cohesive and appropriately cited;
Identify issues of integrity and ethical practices in academic and business contexts. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Online – 3x MyWritingLab Modules and 2x library quizzes 10 N Individual Y  Annotated Bibliography 500 words 5 N Individual Y  Critical Review 50 words 1.5 N Individual Y  Literature Review 500 words 6 N Individual Y  Proposal 300-500 words 7.5 N Individual Y  Essay 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1200 words 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)