Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2011 Communication Strategies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102056 Coordinator Kristen Marshall Opens in new window Description Communication Strategies is a dynamic practice-oriented subject designed to teach students how to interrogate and analyse real clients' products/services, issues and opportunities, markets and audiences, in order to develop effective communication strategies. Through discussion topics and project-based work, students will learn how to design and implement a holistic communications strategy that is relevant for a particular client. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects MKTG 2009 - Public Relations Tactics COMM 2007 - Advertising Strategy LGYA 1172 - Public Relations Strategy Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points at Level 1. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge gained from Year 1 introductory subjects in Public Relations (PR) or Advertising, competent literacy skills, basic computer skills. Learning Outcomes Explain the importance of strategy in successful communications, and the range of approaches and methodologies used in campaigns
Undertake relevant research to develop and leverage strategies for campaigns
Consolidate research findings into a strategic presentation and document
Develop a brief/pitch with potential to inspire successful campaigns
Outline characteristics of a range of mediums and be able to identify relevant alternative communication strategies
Establish criteria for evaluation of campaigns. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15  multiple choice questions x 5 30 N Individual Y  Report 10 minutes summary and 1,000 word presentation 40 N Group Y  Case Study 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advertising Studies, Minor (0043) Advertising, Major (0159) Advertising, Minor (0159) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) Ideate. Strategise. Innovate., Minor (0336) Public Relations, Major (0160) Public Relations, Minor (0160) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)