Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7022 Writing, Sounds, Images, Texts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102501 Coordinator Kate Richards Opens in new window Description In Spring 2023 this subject replaced by CART 6002 - Reading and Writing Australia. This subject will involve a reflection on practice-based research in the arts. It will involve a consideration of how various art-forms might interact and inform one another. There will, then, be a focus on interdisciplinary interaction in the arts: across music, visual arts, and writing, with a strong interest in the potentials of new media. Throughout we will make comparisons with the relationship between sound and text in film, and in the media more broadly. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7008 - Display (Sounds Images Text) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing or 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Theorise the role of practice in thinking through artistic form
Analyse how different art forms can interact to deepen or generate affects
Describe the possibilities for new forms of expression through the utilization of new technologies
Examine aspects of the processes involved in generating meaning through different forms
Theorise elements of the potentials of artistic expression
Examine how the manner in which, and the forms through which, works are displayed add to their expressive potential Subject Content Practice-led Research in the creative arts
The interaction between art forms
New technologies and the arts
The generation of meaning across different forms
The potentials of artistic expression
Engagement with cultural contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 4,000 words  100 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Creative Arts (CART)