Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3054 Human Systems Physiology 2 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Kayte Jenkin Opens in new window Description Human Systems Physiology 2 builds upon the physiological concepts and terminology introduced in level 1 and level 2 physiology subjects. The focus of this subject is on the function and regulation of the renal, lymphatic, immune, digestive, hepatic, and reproductive systems, and their physiological integration with other organ systems and processes within the body. This subject emphasises how visceral organ system function and integration is essential for maintaining homeostasis within the human body. The integrative physiology of the visceral organ systems is explored through problem-based learning activities assuring application of critical analysis and effective oral and written communication. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1010 Equivalent Subjects NATS 2035 Incompatible Subjects BIOS 1025
BIOS 1022
NATS 1009 Restrictions Must have passed 80 Credit Points Assumed Knowledge Physiology knowledge equivalent to Level 2 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain the functions, regulation, and integration of the renal, lymphatic, immune, digestive, hepatic, and reproductive systems of the human body
Explain the maintenance of homeostasis by incorporating an understanding of the visceral organ systems with knowledge of other organ systems (e.g., the nervous, cardiovascular, respiratory, and endocrine systems).
Apply physiological principles to solve problem-based questions through the collection, interpretation, and analysis of data
Critically evaluate and effectively communicate physiological data and an understanding of integrative physiology through various formats, both individually and in groups Subject Content Renal system physiology
Lymphatic system physiology
Blood and Immune system physiology including innate and adaptive immunity
Digestive system and hepatic physiology
Reproductive system physiology including pregnancy and development Special Requirements Essential equipment All students are required to have and wear closed-toed shoes, laboratory coat and safety glasses when working in the Physiology laboratory spaces. Students need to complete and provide evidence of an online WHS induction quiz before entering the first practical class. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 4 x 2 hours 10 N Group/Individual N  Quiz 4 x 15 minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 40 minutes 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Human Anatomy & Physiology Global 2nd Edition By: Erin C. Amerman Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Kayte Jenkin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Kayte Jenkin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)