Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5008 EALD Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102866 Coordinator Pegah Marandi Opens in new window Description The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching senior EALD students. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with texts and writing within EALD. Relevant Stage 6 syllabuses and Australian curriculum documents will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on the core principles underlying EALD teaching. This subject will provide opportunities for students to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts and construct authentic assessment tasks for Stage 6 students. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current EALD research particularly related to the development of cultural and linguistic capacity will be explored. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching  program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have the English Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding EALD learners in Stage 6.
Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches in EALD teaching. 
Engage with narrative, discursive, imaginative and informative texts for EALD learners. 
Construct well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which consider the full range of EALD students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Design a suitable range of assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of EALD senior student learning in relation to writing, reading, speaking and listening. 
Apply innovative teaching resources that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching senior students in EALD
Apply technology to effectively teach senior EALD students to use multimodal texts. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Pegah Marandi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)