Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1024 Introduction to Criminal Justice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102709 Coordinator Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to criminal justice issues and practices through an examination of the Australian criminal justice system and its processes. This is achieved through a court visit (either virtual or physical) as a method of unobtrusive participant observation. Students will examine how the criminal justice system works (and sometimes fails to work), and how police, courts, and corrections influence the processes of criminalisation, victimisation, and (in)justice. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1007 - Introduction to Crime and Criminal Justice CULT 1003 - Crime and Criminal Justice CULT 1008 - Introduction to Crime and Criminal Justice (WSTC) CULT 1025 - Introduction to Criminal Justice (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define the concepts central to understandings of justice generally and criminal justice specifically.
Explain how the Australian criminal justice system works with reference to each branch of the system; police, courts, and corrections.
Discuss Australian criminal justice systems and processes and alternative forms of delivering justice.
Articulate an appropriate understanding of theories and concepts used to inform policing, courts and corrections when working with communities, groups and individuals with whom they engage. Subject Content A holistic understanding of crime and its relation to criminal justice process.
Defining justice.
The purpose of justice, consideration of the role of justice in society.
Justice and crime, connecting notions of justice to the politics of social control.
The link between justice and law, including the separation of powers between parliament, judiciary and the executive branch of government.
Criminal justice institutions and practices: reporting on the role of police, courts, and corrections.
The criminalisation process and social inequality ? gender/sexuality, indigeneity/race and class.
The purpose of punishment and sentencing.
Comparing and contrasting approaches to justice (traditional and alternative approaches e.g. restorative justice).
Defining policing, including the historical context of policing in Australia as well as features of modern policing.
The impact of police discretion, culture, misconduct and moral vulnerability upon police accountability as well as emerging trends in policing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 500 words 25 N Individual N  Short Answer 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Reflection 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ryan Thorneycroft Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Policing (exit only) (1930) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (1709) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Criminology (1710) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Major (0006) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Minor (0006) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Social Research, Minor (0259)