Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3027 Public Health in a Changing World Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401397 Coordinator Catharine Fleming Opens in new window Description This subject engages students to explore public health in relation to dynamic social, political, economic, environmental and cultural contexts. Students will critique research, policy, practice and evaluation processes to identify their impact on health practices and health outcomes over time. Using their knowledge in public health, epidemiology, sociology and economics students will be required to identify and articulate gaps in current health care and learn to develop a plan towards addressing them. The subject will engage students in reflecting on the future of health care across national and international contexts. Priority health issues that will be discussed in this subject may include chronic and age-related disease, communicable disease, mental health, sexual and reproductive health, child and maternal health, Indigenous health, migrant and refugee health, and environmental health. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 1012 AND
PUBH 2020 Equivalent Subjects PUBH 3003 - Contemporary Issues in Public Health Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of public health, social determinants of health and the Australian health care system, and the fundamentals of epidemiology. Learning Outcomes Identify and evaluate the influence of dynamic factors affecting health, wellbeing and disease in a changing world;
Compare and contrast contemporary health issues in national and international contexts;
Examine how research shapes responses to health, wellbeing and disease over time;
Analyse the different professional roles and approaches to public health practice to address contemporary health issues;
Critically appraise the role of public health in addressing gaps in health practice and health outcomes over time;
Develop a public health program that builds on the present to address the health and wellbeing needs of people in the future. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Catharine Fleming Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Catharine Fleming Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH) Public Health Studies, Major (0297) Public Health, Major (0055) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021)