Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 1010 Public Relations Theory and Practice (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700090 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the student to the theory and research that serves as the foundation of the practice of public relations. The subject surveys the history of the discipline, the theories on which the discipline is based, and current models of practice.  The subject focuses on understanding how to research and analyse the opinions of organisational publics in order to develop mutually beneficial relationships with those publics. The contemporary practice of public relations requires an understanding of a broad range of social science theory and research and the ability to incorporate that knowledge in the solution of public relations problems. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Public Relations Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units Equivalent Subjects MKTG 1009 - Public Relations Theory and Practice Assumed Knowledge Computer literacy. Learning Outcomes Explain relevant public relations concepts, theories and contexts.
Describe and critique current practices of the public relations industry.
Identify and critically assess current issues for public relations practice.
Explain the value of socially responsible, ethical public relations practice.
Identify the legal implications for public relations activities.
Describe and identify publics for public relations clients, issues and activities. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Homework activities – 5 x 4% 
Minimum 200 words each 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Draft (10%
Written Issue Brief (30%)
2000 words 40 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Communication (exit only) (7043) Diploma in Communication Extended - Communication (7148) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)