Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1066 Introduction to Culture and Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102913 Coordinator Sherene Idriss Opens in new window Description Introduction to Culture and Society examines the ways culture - as both representation and practice - shapes individual and collective identities. It will focus on the rituals and routines of everyday life, and their connection to our wider social relationships. The subject will also explore inequality both in Australia and globally, the social structures that generate this inequality and the cultural processes by which we mark status and social distinction. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1017 - Everyday Life
HUMN 1018 - Everyday Life (WSTC) Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Unit, students will be able to: Exercise sociological and cultural concepts and frameworks to make sense of human experience in ways that go beyond ‘common sense’ accounts of the world.
Recognise the role of symbolic creativity in everyday life and its connection to social relations and institutions.
Develop an ethnographic understanding of cultural practices, both familiar and distant, in order to make sense of their larger significance to social groups.
Research the dimensions of social inequality in Australia and globally
Identify both the ways social inequalities are marked in cultural terms, and the wider structures and institutions that serve to reproduce those inequalities.
Understand how globalisation and global inequalities shape everyday life in contemporary Australia. Subject Content Section 1: Culture, Society and Everyday Life
 
Week 1: The Idea of Society
Week 2: Cultural Representation
Week 3: Cultural Practices of Everyday Life Section 2: Practising Culture: Self, Community and Symbolic Creativity Week 4: Presentation of Self - Getting Dressed
Week 5: Communal Rituals - Ethnographies of Gift Giving
Week 6: Food Consumption and Everyday Multiculturalism Section 3: Economic Inequality, Boundary Marking and Social Distinction Week 7 Dimensions of Inequality in Australia
Week 8 The Geographies of Inequality: Poverty and Prosperity in Sydney
Week 9 Parsing Poverty: From the Undeserving Poor to the Bogans Section 4: The ‘Australian Way of Life’ and its Contradictions Week 11: Divisions of Labour: Housework, Care Work, Gender and Race.
Week 12: The Backyard & the Bush: Culture & Nature in the Age of Climate Change
Week 13: Conclusion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Sherene Idriss Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sherene Idriss Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sherene Idriss Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)