Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 2019 First Peoples and Criminal Justice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102712 Coordinator Robyn Newitt Opens in new window Description In 2022 this subject replaced by HUMN 2070 First Peoples and Criminal Justice. How does colonialism underscore the foundational narratives, knowledges and operation of the legal and criminal justice institutions of colonised nations? Focusing primarily on the Australian context of colonial invasion and settlement, this subject explores the plight of Indigenous peoples and their severe over-representation in the Australian criminal justice system. Studying the impact of colonisation and exploring Indigenous narratives, students will critically examine  issues faced by Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander people and their experience of criminal justice in Australia. Overall, the subject will equip students with an understanding of the relationship between dominant colonial narratives of race and institutional racism, while considering how Indigenous knowledge can inform better social and criminal justice outcomes for Indigenous populations. Comparative examples of criminal (in)justice for Indigenous populations in other colonised nations will also be considered. School Social Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects WELF 2008 - Human Rights Human Services and the Law Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study: Critical analysis of a recent justice 
related issue for Indigenous populations (eg Ms Dhu’s death in custody case) 900 words 30 N Individual   Professional Task: Report to be submitted to the relevant Criminal Justice organisation (eg coroner, police etc) on the same case study chosen for Assessment 1 900 words 30 N Individual   Critical Review: Analysis of a criminal justice 
narrative from a decolonial/postcolonial perspective 1,200 words 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Other Society and Culture (CULT) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)