Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 1002 Foundations of Medicine 1 Credit Points 80 Legacy Code 400861 Coordinator Ritesh Raju Opens in new window Description This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). This subject integrates the foundational sciences with clinical skills. Students learn the structure and function of the human body, particularly, whole body organisation, basic anatomy, nutrition and metabolism, function and pathology of the gastrointestinal system (including liver), cardiovascular system and respiratory system. In addition, students will gain an understanding of health psychology, patient experience, the medical system, identifying risk, errors in medical practice, managing error and basic procedures such as hand washing. A particular focus will be the communities that make up Greater Western Sydney. Students will also participate in clinical tutorials and will gain skills in history taking and communication in Session 1H and skills in history and examination of the gastrointestinal tract, cardiovascular system and respiratory systems during Session 2H. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4641 Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery or 4647 Bachelor of Medical Research. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Patient Care
Health in the Community
Personal and professional development
Scientific basis of medicine Subject Content 1. The major objectives are to gain an integrated understanding of the structure and function of the human body. This will be addressed at the levels of organ systems, tissues, cells and molecules. The scientific basis of the following topics will be discussed: whole body organisation including basic anatomy, roles of the major organ systems, functional organisation of cells and their specific organelles, characteristics of specialised cells, structure-function characteristics of major biological molecules including carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, enzymes and DNA, the biochemical basis of complex processes such as homeostasis, reproduction and inheritance, growth and development, defence against infectious agents, pathological changes, ageing and death.
2. The unit then examines nutrition and metabolism before exploring the structure, function and pathology of the gastrointestinal system (including liver), cardiovascular system and respiratory system.
3. In the Personal and Professional Development (PPD) stream there is a focus on developmental psychology, the patient experience, the doctor, human interactions, the human in context and the healthcare system.
4. Population health will focus on Evidence Based Medicine in sessions 1 and 2.
5. Introduction to Clinical Medicine will cover generic history taking and communication skills in semester 1 and skills in history and examination of the gastrointestinal tract, cardiovascular system and respiratory systems during semester 2. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 2 hours 18 N  Y  Multiple Choice 2 hours 18 N  Y  Multiple Choice 1 hr 10 N  Y  Multiple Choice 1 hr 4 N  Y  Quiz Compiled throughout 1H and 2H S/U N  Y  Essay Compiled throughout 1H S/U Y  Y  Participation Participation throughout 1H S/U Y  Y  Quiz 30 minutes S/U Y  Y  Professional Placement Performance Throughout 1H S/U Y  Y  Practical Exam 45 minutes 10 Y  Y  Short Answer 2hrs 22 N  Y  Multiple Choice 2 hours 22 N  Y  Multiple Choice 1 hr 12 N  Y  Multiple Choice 1 hr 6 N  Y  Multiple Choice 1 hr S/U Y  Y  Critical Review 200 words throughout 2H 6 N  Y  Reflection 500 words S/U Y  Y  Applied Project Compiled throughout 2H S/U Y  Y  Participation Throughout 2H S/U Y  Y  Quiz 30 minutes S/U Y  Y  Professional Placement Performance Throughout placement in 2H S/U Y  Y  Participation Throughout Subject S/U Y  Y  Professional Task 2 hours S/U Y  Y  Learning Contract Throughout Subject S/U Y  Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)