Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7033 The Social Determinants of Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401372 Coordinator Amit Arora Opens in new window Description The social determinants of health recognise that the health and wellbeing of individuals and communities are influenced by a range of social factors such as wealth, education, gender, and ethnicity. Such factors determine access to and use of resources influencing health outcomes and resulting in disparities in health or health inequalities. In this unit, students will use theories and frameworks for the social determinants of health to assess the role of key social factors in affecting the health and illness of individuals and communities. Students will be introduced to the challenges of measuring and addressing the social determinants of health, and critically examine examples of programmatic and policy interventions aimed at reducing health inequalities and addressing the social determinants of health. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects HLTH 7001 A Global Perspective on the Social Determinants of Health Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically appraise the social factors that determine health and illness across the lifespan.
Critically explain the impact of social structure and processes on health inequalities within Australia and internationally.
Evaluate the evidence supporting the social determinants thesis and causal pathways offered to describe the link between social factors and inequitable health outcomes.
Assess the capacity of the Australian and other national health systems to respond to the challenge of reducing health inequities.
Use evidence to investigate, analyse and synthesise the societal determinants of health and disease for effective decision-making Subject Content 1. Health inequalities and the history of social determinants of health in relation to other key theories and approaches in population health
2. International Commission on the Social Determinants of Health and introduction to major social determinants of health
3. Health and wealth: the role of poverty, employment and education
4. Neighbourhood and the built environment
5. Social capital and community context
6. Discrimination and health
7. Life course approach
8. Indigenous health
9. Methodological challenges involved in measuring social phenomena and making causal inferences about the relationship between social factors and health
10. Policies and interventions that could address the social determinants of health Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,200 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 600 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Amit Arora Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Amit Arora Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Amit Arora Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Amit Arora Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Amit Arora Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Health Science (4701) Graduate Certificate in Public Health (4705) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Healthy Places) (1899) Graduate Diploma in Aged Care Management (4757) Graduate Diploma in Digital Health (4778) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management (4777) Graduate Diploma in Occupational Health and Safety (4779) Graduate Diploma in Public Health (4704) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Public Health (4702) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Public Health (PUBH) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021)