Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7036 Introduction to Social Research Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102175 Coordinator Sharon Kwok Opens in new window Description This subject provides foundational skills and knowledge for research in the Social Sciences including contemporary research, developments, and applications across a range of professional fields. It introduces key research concepts of epistemology, ethics, theory, and methodology drawing on different study disciplines within the Social Sciences. It provides an overview of research design and methods for collecting and analysing research data including familiarisation with qualitative, quantitative and mixed-methods approaches. The subject explores the processes by which knowledge is created through research and the purposes to which it can be applied in real world settings. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 7005 - Research for Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate degree in the Social Sciences or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critically analyse the processes by which knowledge is created through research.
2. Explain and evaluate epistemological and theoretical frameworks for research in the social sciences.
3. Reflect on and apply Indigenous research ethics and practices, including how to work with Indigenous individuals and/ or communities. 
4. Apply established knowledge to develop a research idea and the steps required to translate the idea into a research report.
5. Appraise different methodological approaches to research in the social sciences.
6. Apply knowledge of qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research to interpret and conduct research in practice settings. Subject Content 1. Introduction to contemporary approaches to research in the social sciences.
2. Conceptualising research in the social sciences - What is ontology/epistemology.
3. Research Methodologies: theories and frameworks.
4. Doing ethical research in the social sciences, including research with Indigenous individuals and communities
5. Methods for collecting and analysing research data: qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods.
6.From research interest to research  idea.
7. The research report template.
8. Writing as research. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 500 words each, (total 2,000 words) 40 N Individual Y  Essay 100 words each, (total 1,000 words) 10 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)