Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7021 Credit and Lending Decisions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 51166 Coordinator Vivienne Saverimuttu Opens in new window Description Lending is one of the most important functions of any financial institution. If not managed properly, it can lead to credit quality problems, threatening the existence of the financial institution.  This subject aims to provide an analysis of the various lending activities of financial institutions, emphasising the assessment of credit proposals and the management of credit risk. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Assumed Knowledge 51163 Financial Institutions and Markets and/or 51164 Finance / 200426 Corporate Finance. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply constructive lending practices with due consideration of the interactive relationship between different banking activities, structures and risks;
Apply knowledge of credit risk assessment principles and processes to conduct proficient credit risk assessment;
Analyse lending information to detect different credit risk components and to make reasoned judgements appropriate to the circumstances;
Integrate the spectrum of knowledge and information to generate constructive lending solutions. Subject Content The principles of lending and lending basics
Financial statements analysis
Credit scoring techniques
Credit risk analysis
Consumer lending
Real estate lending
Security, consumer credit legislation and legal issues
Corporate lending
Small business lending
International lending
Credit risk measurement and loan portfolio management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Report 3,000 words 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Vivienne Saverimuttu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Finance, Major (0226) Master of Applied Finance (2759) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782) Master of Finance (2705)