Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0010 Academic Skills for Arts (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900097 Coordinator Eloise Tognetti Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the essential academic skills required for success in tertiary studies. It employs an explicit pedagogy approach to teach students how to become independent, active, and reflective learners. The subject also includes essential research and writing skills specific to the arts. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Language and Literature, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 0009 - Academic Skills for Arts (UWSCFS) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied project: Group project producing a resource to offer practical support to first year university students in the transition to university study 500 words + 5 minutes presentation /group member  25 N Group   Essay: Written task structured as an argument that outlines what an Arts degree can offer the student in terms of their professional and personal goals 1000 words 30 N Individual   Self-assessment: Evaluation of experience of mentoring project submitted either as video log or written journal 2 x 2 minutes spoken or 300 words written
 25 N Individual   Reflection: Evaluation of keynote lecture topic, and note-taking strategy 2 x 200 words 20 N Individual Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning to learn blog 1000-4000 words 40 N Individual   Zoom Tutorial tasks a) Introductory presentation b) Goal setting task c) Abstract analysis d) Referencing task e) Critical thinking task f) Annotated Bibliography g) Essay plan h) Essay progress report i) Proofreading task j) Self-assessment rubric task  k) Group work task and evaluation  l) Exam preparation task a) 3 min b) 200 words c) 200 words d) 200 words e) 200 words f) 200 words g) 400 words h) 3-5 minutes i) 20 minutes j) 200 words k) 5 minutes l)  3 minutes 60 (5 each) N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)