Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2034 Meaning in Language Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102489 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to how meaning is constructed in language. It gives an overview of context-free meaning (semantics) and context-dependent meaning (pragmatics). Students will learn how we can encode and access meaning in communication and how this can be studied scientifically. This subject builds on and expands knowledge and methods developed in other linguistics subjects, especially Structure of Language and Pragmatics. It further connects to more advanced subjects, in particular Historical Linguistics, Second Language Acquisition, Bilingualism, Sociolinguistics and Discourse Analysis. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1014 Equivalent Subjects LANG 2038 - Pragmatics Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of introductory linguistic terminology, specifically in morphology and syntax. Learning Outcomes demonstrate knowledge of the key concepts of semantics and pragmatics and explain this knowledge to others;
analyse, discuss and reflect on significant knowledge in semantics and pragmatics;
apply theoretical knowledge to the analysis of data;
explain the principles and relevance of research in semantics and pragmatics; and
apply the acquired knowledge and skills in professional practice (translation, interpreting, education, business, etc.) Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15-45 minutes each 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes presentation plus 200 word abstract 20 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Languages and Linguistics (1810) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) International English, Major (0018) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022) Linguistics, Minor (0022)