Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 7014 Advanced Topics in Cybersecurity Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301236 Coordinator Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the advanced features of Cybersecurity, contemporary views on security, and the solutions that aim to protect the emerging services and technologies. The emphasis is on the development of student skills to enable them to do proficient research and development works and studies in the cybersecurity discipline. On successful completion of this subject, students will be equipped with an in-depth understanding of relevant issues, attacks on massively interconnected systems, and the evolving approaches to improve the reliability of advanced services. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge The students should be familiar with the fundamentals of computer networking and security. It is advisable that the students must have either taken appropriate subjects in these areas (e.g., 300695 Network Technologies and 300696 Systems and Network Security) or have equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the important concepts applicable to the emerging cybersecurity-related approaches and technologies.
Analyse the vital cybersecurity issues in modern applications and services.
Explain the contemporary issues in security and reliability of modern massively interconnected systems.
Evaluate the performance of the emerging cybersecurity solutions and the related technologies.
Demonstrate proficiency with key research and development issues in the fields of cybercrime and cybersecurity. Subject Content Cybersecurity: Context and Background
Contemporary Issues in Cybersecurity
Trust and Behavior Analysis
Securing Massively Interconnected Systems
Advanced System Cybersecurity and Reliability
Cybersecurity Research, Resources, and Citation
Methodologies for Research in Advanced Cybersecurity Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,200 words 20 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 4,000 words and 5-10 minutes per student

 50 N Both (Individual & Group) Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Cybersecurity, Testamur Major (T003) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)