Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 0003 Introduction to the Australian Legal System (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700216 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to develop an understanding of the Australian legal system for students whose courses involve law subjects relevant to their area of study, such as Business, Construction, Policing and Criminology. Students will investigate the role of the Australian legal system in contemporary society, and explore its relevance to their chosen career path through project-based assessments. The subject will also help students develop the language and communication skills necessary for further tertiary study. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Legal Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects JUST 0005 - Introduction to the Australian Legal System – Fast Track (UWSC) JUST 0004 - Introduction to the Australian Legal System (UWSC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and use key legal terminology appropriately.
Demonstrate an understanding of key legal concepts, the role of law in society and its impact upon Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Explain the relevance of the Australian legal system to their chosen career path.
Demonstrate effective written communication skills.
Observe and report on the operation of Australian courts.
Demonstrate skills in legal problem solving. Subject Content 1. The concept of law and the development of Australia?fs legal system.
2. The basic composition of the Australian legal system and introduction Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes 10 N Individual N  Report 750 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 750 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Business (7177) Diploma in Business Extended (7102) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law (LAWS)