Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1033 The Developing Child (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700273 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description An in-depth knowledge of child development is essential for educators to plan and provide culturally and developmentally appropriate practices for children in the early years. In this context, this subject aims to explore the diverse nature, processes and aspects of children’s development from conception to 12 years of age. The subject investigates the physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains of development. Students will gather an understanding of the evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research. The role of family, community, and other sociocultural influences will also be considered in relation to understanding the holistic nature of children’s development. 
Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the development of a Child Portfolio. Students must complete the WSU’s online Child Protection Awareness Training before undertaking the Child Portfolio. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1032 - The Developing Child Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain children’s development from conception to 12 years of age across all domains;
Analyse the major theories and contemporary research relating to children’s development and apply theoretical understandings of child development in their learning;
Discuss evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research; 
Demonstrate understanding of the diversity in families, cultures, environments and communities and consider the implications for children’s development, health, care and education;
Critique developmentally and culturally appropriate practices and principles and  their implications for care and education that is responsive to needs of children and their families;
Apply knowledge of observational and assessment techniques to the development of a child’s case study. 
Document and interpret observations using related theory and research and suggest implications for planning for children’s developments. Subject Content An overview of theories of children’s development.
Child development: history, methods and sociocultural perspectives of child development 
Biological foundations of child development, prenatal development, and birth. 
Child development: physical and motor development; cognitive development; language development; socio-emotional development; moral and spiritual development; creative and academic development. 
Diversity in families, cultures and communities and importance of working with children, families and communities professionally and ethically.
Methods of observation, documentation and analysis of child development. 
Developmentally and culturally appropriate practices for children in the early years and their application to education contexts.
Academic literacy, including analytical and reflective writing and the organisation of a child portfolio. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz  20 N Individual N  Practical  10 N Individual N  Critical Review  30 N Individual N  Portfolio  40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7049) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12 (7146) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary (7187) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Teacher Education (TEAC)