Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1023 Introduction to Engineering Business Management (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700114 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description This subject will cover aspects of modern engineering business management.  This subject of study will provide students an opportunity to look at small, medium and large Engineering businesses and the role of Engineering Associates in those organisations. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the functions and nature of modern engineering business management.
Define the role, abilities and core competencies of the Engineering Associate in engineering businesses.
Evaluate the principles and processes of modern engineering business management and identify key areas of management in small, medium and large Engineering business for further improvement.
Integrate and apply the principles of engineering business management to solve complex engineering problems and become effective in the workplace.
Explain the internal and external environment of the business and formulate business strategies Subject Content This unit provides engineering students with basic knowledge of engineering business management. The contents of this unit are arranged to provide engineers with an introduction to many of the important topics of management, such as the role of engineers, decision making, human resource management, strategic management, business environment, organizing and leading a business, and control. The weekly contents are described as follows:
1. Introduction to management: roles, functions and organizations
2. The environment and corporate culture
3. Managing in a global environment
4. Ethics, social responsibility and sustainable development
5. Organisational planning and goal setting
6. Strategy formulation and implementation: environmental and internal analyses, and business strategies
7. Managerial decision-making
8. Fundamentals of organising
9. Human resource management
10. Managing diversity
11. Leading and motivation in organizations Marketing
12. Communication and teamwork in organizations
13. Managerial and quality control Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 3,000 words 25 N Group N  Presentation 15 minutes 15 N Group N  Quiz 30 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)