Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4011 Inclusion in the Early years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102685 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Description Inclusion is both a right and an expectation for all children. Its effectiveness, however, depends upon teachers having the competencies, dispositions and skills to advocate for equity of access, participation and inclusion for children with a broad range of abilities within early childhood settings. In this subject, students reflect on the social construction of disability, policy and research in relation to the identification of additional needs, intervention and inclusion. Students will learn to assess curriculum and environments for learning, and to design, evaluate and communicate inclusive plans. The subject will focus on enhancing quality inclusive early childhood education through responsive adaptation and modification of the environment, curriculum and teaching practices. The importance of forming genuine partnerships with families and collaborating with the team around the child are advocated as essential for effective inclusion.  This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have successfully completed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Analyse the theoretical, ethical, philosophical, legislative and policy frameworks supporting inclusion in the early years.
Critique perceptions, attitudes and beliefs about disability and inclusion.
Apply knowledge of development, learning dispositions and learning theories to identify children with additional needs and make appropriate recommendations for referral to relevant community and educational support services.
Assess early childhood curricula to ensure it appropriately recognises the impact of specific disabilities and has an underlying basis for promoting engaged learning for all children.
Develop responsive inclusion plans that reflect the family’s priorities for their child and facilitate learning.
Evaluate the learning spaces, resources, curriculum and pedagogies and modify them to provide quality inclusive learning environments.
Create strategies to support access, participation and learning.
Describe practices that support collaboration and shared decision making between families, early childhood environments and service systems. Subject Content Assumptions and contradictions of inclusion 
Legislative policies and philosophical frameworks that guide inclusive practice 
Assessment for learning
Identification and referral 
Family-centred practices and relationships 
Collaboration and working with other professionals 
Planning for inclusion: adapting and modifying learning environments, pedagogical practices, embedding learning, monitoring and evaluating implementation
Supporting school transitions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Case Study 1,500 words 35 N Individual   Professional Task 2,000 words 45 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)