Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 1005 Environmental Issues and Solutions (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500053 Coordinator Jack Isherwood Opens in new window Description This subject explores a variety of environmental issues with a focus on emerging environmental issues. The relationships between human health and environmental health are explored through a number of case studies. Concepts explored include 21st Century contaminants, noise, energy and water. Through a combination of case studies and practical field experience, students will develop the skills and knowledge appropriate to develop solutions to a variety of environmental issues. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 1002 Environment and Health ENVL 1003 Environmental issues and Solutions ENVL 1002 Environmental issues and Solutions Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the following program: 7175 Undergraduate Certificate of Environmental Sustainability Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and describe a variety of environmental issues
Describe a number of emerging environmental issues due to urban development
Identify and explain essential characteristics of various environmental issues
Monitor, assess and make appropriate recommendations to address environmental noise issues
Demonstrate competency in academic writing
Research and communicate a case study of an environmental issue, and Subject Content 1. Introduction into a number of environmental issues
2. Urban development and environment
3. Energy use
4. Water pollution
5. Water security
6. Urban environments and human health
7. 21st Century contaminants
8. Environmental determinants of human health and wellbeing
9. Environmental noise
10. Assessment, regulation and control of environmental noise
11. Environmental health policy, practice and stakeholder responsibilities
12. Real world case studies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes x 2  30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1200 words 40 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Environmental Studies (ENVL) Undergraduate Certificate in Environmental Sustainability (7175)