Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 1008 Financial Accounting Applications (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700029 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description This subject gives students the practical skills necessary to analyse the accounting transactions of an entity, and then be able to measure and record these transactions in a systematic manner for the preparation of simple financial statements. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 1006 Equivalent Subjects ACCT 1007 - Financial Accounting Applications Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain and apply the accounting elements (assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses) and the underlying principles and relationships of the elements for the purpose of periodic financial reporting
Identify components of the accounting cycle
Prepare journalising and posting transactions to general and subsidiary ledgers and complete a trial balance
Prepare financial statements for simple business structures using manual based and computerised accounting systems
Apply the conceptual framework and accounting standards to account for different types of transactions. Subject Content 1. Revision of material from subject 700274 Accounting in Context.
2. Extension of the accounting cycle and accounting processes.
3. Double entry accounting.
4. Accounting for GST
5. Transferring information from journal to the ledger.
6. Recording of inventory (perpetual and periodic systems), valuation methods, and depreciation of non-current assets.
7. Trial balance.
8. Bank Reconciliation
9. Preparation of simple financial statements.
10. Partnership formation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 800 words 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical Equivalent to 1,500 words  20 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Diploma in Business (7177) Diploma in Business Extended (7102) Diploma in Business Fast Track (7100) Diploma in Business/Bachelor of Business (6037)