Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 1002 Fundamentals of Exercise Science (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700073 Coordinator Ryan Sidoti Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide fundamental basic science and sport and exercise science content, with the intent to prepare the students for the more advanced scientific applications to the study and research of the sport and exercise sciences.   Students will be exposed to computer software applications to aid data processing used in the sport and exercise sciences, with special applications to fields such as biomechanics, exercise physiology, motor learning, skill acquisition and sport psychology. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 1001 - Fundamentals of Exercise Science Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the scientific background of the sport and exercise sciences and outline career opportunities within this discipline.
Define and describe each of the main disciplines of the sport and exercise sciences: biomechanics; exercise physiology; motor learning & skill acquisition; and sports & health psychology.
Recall and illustrate knowledge of introductory principles within the main disciplines of the sport and exercise sciences.
Evaluate measurement techniques and procedures typically undertaken in the sport and exercise sciences.
Employ equipment and software applications to either: collect, process and/or present data common to the sport and exercise sciences.
Recall knowledge of and execute all practical skills and activities safely in compliance with discipline specific WH&S procedures and systems, and WSU standard operating procedures and laboratory rules.
Demonstrate communication, numeracy and social interaction skills, together with information and technology literacy. Subject Content Overview of the Sport and Exercise Sciences
Measurement in Sport and Exercise Science
Introduction to Biomechanics
Introduction to Exercise Physiology
Introduction to Physical Activity
Introduction to Motor Learning and Skill Acquisition
Introduction to Sport and Exercise Psychology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook Week 3, Week 8, Week 11 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 750-1000 words 20 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hrs and 20 mins 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Carissa Hanes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (7088) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Extended (7143) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)