Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7002 Heritage and Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102069 Coordinator Anna Leditschke Opens in new window Description This subject explores the values behind, and practicalities regarding, heritage and planning, from federal and state perspectives in Australia. With a specific focus on Sydney, the subject explores how planning applications, within the urban development sphere, impact upon heritage assets, and how these impacts are mitigated through heritage planning legislation. The subject asks students to step into the shoes of heritage planning professionals and to identify and research a heritage asset that is to be impacted by a potential planning proposal and then to design an appropriate mitigation response within the bounds of relevant heritage legislation. School Social Sciences Discipline Architecture and Urban Environment, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects ARCH 3001 - Introduction to Urban Design Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Summarise different conceptions of heritage.
Analyse the values that state and local government authorities and local communities place on heritage.
Apply heritage legislation to real world planning issues.
Access heritage planning research resources and apply these to authentic planning issues
Construct an appropriate mitigation response to heritage planning issues.
Critically evaluate the heritage planning process. Subject Content What is heritage? The sociological approach.
Why and how do governments and communities value heritage?
Federal and state heritage legislation as it relates to planning.
The role of local government.
Identifying and process of listing significance of a site.
The extant heritage planning recourses in NSW and how to access them.
The heritage planning mitigation process.
Indigenous heritage and planning issues.
Identifying heritage assets and planning impacts and designing an appropriate response case study.
The adaptive reuse of heritage for tourism.
Comparative heritage planning.
Problematizing heritage planning. Critiquing the heritage planning discourse. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,200 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study Report: 1,000 words (only the report is graded). Group Presentation: 5 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Anna Leditschke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Sustainable Tourism Futures (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage), Minor (0307)