Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7021 International Governance Dissertation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200904 Coordinator June Wang Opens in new window Description This subject comprises the preparation of a research dissertation, of between 6,000 to 8,000 words, on a novel and/or in-depth study related to International Governance. The subject provides an opportunity for Master of Laws students to further develop and refine their legal research and writing skills and to explore and analyse a legal topic of international governance. It also requires the student to undertake a literature review, submission of a research proposal, upon acceptance of which the dissertation is written under supervision. The dissertation should be of sufficient quality for acceptance for publication in the online Journal of International Governance, hosted by WSU School of Law. School Law Discipline Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7027 Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7018 AND
LAWS 7013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2824 Master of Laws, 2784 Master of Laws (International Governance) or 2810 Master of Laws (International Governance). Assumed Knowledge Completed a law degree (Bachelor of Laws or Juris Doctor) or equivalent in any jurisdiction. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of domestic and international laws in respect to corporate governance.
Demonstrate an understanding of recent developments in governance from more than one international legal jurisdiction.
Interpret and communicate knowledge to present a coherent and sustained argument to their area of specialty, the legal profession and broader society.
Use cognitive, technical and legal skills to investigate complex legal problems and apply established concepts and theories to different bodies of knowledge.
Demonstrate mastery of knowledge to critically reflect and analyse relevant theory within the legal profession from a broad range of legal and non-legal sources.
Demonstrate creativity and initiative to new situations in professional practice and for further learning in different jurisdictions (different legal systems).
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge to critically analyse and solve complex legal problems, which can be inter-disciplinary in professional practice.
Demonstrate a high level of awareness of practices that lead to autonomy and accountability as a public or private lawyer working for government, NGO, or corporation or private practice. Subject Content 1. Selection of a specific topic of study on international governance, as agreed by the subject coordinator, the student and the supervisor.
2. A unique problem, involving a literature review, appropriate methodology and submission to potentially change the law or frameworks of international governance, in respect of a particular jurisdiction.
3. Preparation for publication. The dissertation, of between 6,000 and 8,000 words should be publishable in the online Journal of International Governance, hosted by the WSU, School of Law. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 6,000 to 8,000 words 100 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject International Governance, Testamur Major (T127) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)