Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 3022 Screen Media Composition Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102563 Coordinator Bruce Crossman Opens in new window Description This subject is the final stage in the Composition and Music Production sub-major sequences. The subject is also available to Media Arts Production and Creative Industries students. The subject aims to prepare students creatively and technically to undertake self-directed sound composition projects for screen media. The areas to be examined include: sound studio techniques, mix processing for sound recording and screen media, an introduction to surround audio techniques, sound composition (score-based and/or sound-scape) for screen, film spotting for sound, audio-visual interactions, and professional communication/pitching of sound composition proposals. Each student produces a complete sound-composition for screen package including sound composition, sound recording, screen media product (including film), and promotional documentation and samples. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1009 OR
PERF 1014 OR
COMM 2030 OR
PERF 2015 OR
PERF 2004 OR
PERF 3010 OR
PERF 3023 Equivalent Subjects PERF 3024 - Sound Composition for Screen Media Incompatible Subjects PERF 3005 - Digital Musics 6 - Performance Contexts LGYA 1104 - Music Composition Advanced Restrictions Available places limited by technological infrastructure. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Ability to understand, operate and productively explore the creative potentials of professional sound studios
Ability to integrate digital video in audio projects
Develop an ability to create and structure composition and sound-scape components of screen media utilizing notation, orchestration, studio techniques and improvisation
Develop an understanding of sound interaction with visual media to forward screen narrative or drama
Develop an ability to practically create and record sounds (score and studio based) for screen media
Developed research and presentation skills - information gathering, problem solving, analysis and organization of material, argument ability, documentation skills, presentation of sound composition samples
Developed ability to generate, define and carry out a program of creative sound composition for screen media
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Develop, implement and promote Art of Sound activities and projects, guiding and collaborating with students across the Music program to further progress leadership, advanced production and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in contribution to the program and coordination of the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content 1. Extended examinations of contemporary studio recording techniques
2. Practical and theoretical introduction to 5.1 surround sound
3. Practical and theoretical examinations of audio and visual master preparation
4. Extended ability to create, structure and design composition and sound-scapes for interaction with screen media, including scores and/or graphic scores
5. Examinations of practical techniques in screen sound composition (composing, improvising, orchestrating, sound-designing, recording) for performers within industry-style timelines
6. Critical listening and viewing skills for analysing sound composition and its interaction with visual media
7. Research and presentation skills for directorial brief (including: information gathering, creative ideas for sound composition, sound-image interaction, problem solving, analysis and organization of material into articulate and constructive argument, documentation, creative work samples)
8. Complete sound-composition and visual production skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation Presentation (5 minutes) Essay (1000 words) 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Score, Sound Track Recordings and Documentation
(1000-2000 words total) 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 7-10 minutes 40 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bruce Crossman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Composition, Minor (0067) Music Production, Minor (0079) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF) Sound Production, Minor (0242)