Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4013 Occupational Therapy Specialties Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401124 Coordinator Ali Gebhardt Opens in new window Description This subject provides occupational therapy students with the opportunity to select from, and undertake advanced study in, a range of occupational therapy clinical specialty areas. Several streams will run concurrently in this subject representing key clinical areas of specialisation in occupational therapy. Students will be able to focus their study, by selecting a combination of clinical specialty streams. Streams will cover relevant clinical content, examining the unique occupational therapy contribution in each specialty area. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3002 AND
REHA 3020 AND
REHA 3019 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7015 - Occupational Therapy Specialities Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy. This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students entering this subject will have completed all previous occupational therapy subjects from the third year of the Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy. Learning Outcomes Review and evaluate the unique occupational therapy contribution in clinical specialty areas of interest.
Reflect on how occupational therapy practice in specialised areas relates to the theoretical basis of occupational therapy.
Identify clinical questions and apply knowledge and skills of evidence-based practice to the investigation of clinical specialty topics.
Perform professional competencies relevant to the chosen clinical specialisation areas. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have: 1) submitted a Student Undertaking Form and have applied for a National Police Certificate;
2) submitted Working with Children Check Student Declaration;
3) possess a current WorkCover Authority approved First Aid Certificate. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract 2000 words or equivalent product 45 N Individual N  Learning Contract 2000 words or equivalent product 45 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Ali Gebhardt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)