Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7007 Bioscience for Midwifery Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401088 Coordinator Fiona Arundell Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an understanding of the biological and physiological aspects of human reproduction including the menstrual cycle, fertilisation and embryology, pregnancy, labour, birth and the early postnatal weeks.  Emphasis will be placed on normal maternal anatomy and physiology of pregnancy, labour and birth and the postnatal period. It will include fetal growth and development, adaptation of the newborn and growth and development to six weeks of age. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4697 Graduate Diploma in Midwifery and can only be undertaken by a registered nurse employed in a participating NSW Health Local Health District facility in the position of a midwifery student. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and describe the normal biological and physiological processes related to pregnancy, labour and birth, and the postnatal period
Describe growth and development of the fetus and relate it to stages of pregnancy
Describe physiological changes that occur at birth and growth and development of the newborn to six weeks of age Subject Content 1. Pregnancy; human reproduction, anatomy and physiology related to pregnancy, labour and birth, fetal growth and development
2. Labour and birth; initiation and maintenance and progress of labour, birth process (fetal position and descent, contraction patterns, mechanism of labour and birth in a variety of positions)
3. Postnatal; maternal physiological changes, physiology of the newborn at birth, newborn growth and development to six weeks Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online Quiz x 2 30 mins each quiz 40 N Individual   End of session closed book examination: MCQ and short answer 2 hours 60 Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)