Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 2006 Computer Networking (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700012 Coordinator Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window Description This is an introductory subject in computer systems networking.  It covers basic networking technologies, Ethernet fundamentals, ISO OSI model, routing, switching and sub-netting, the internet architecture, networking protocols, including TCP/IP, important OSI layer 2 and 3 networking device fundamentals, basic network management and security issues.  This subject is also the first of three subjects which will prepare students for industry based networking certification (CCNA). School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Networks and Communications Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 7067 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended and 7134 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended – ICT must pass LANG 0002 Academic Communication 2 (WSTC Prep) or LANG 0032 English for Tertiary Study 2 (WSTC Prep) or LANG 0039 Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (WSTC Prep) and must pass INFO 0008 Computer Studies (WSTC Prep) before enrolling in this unit

Students enrolled in 7138 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended-ICT 7139 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended 7140 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended–IS and 7141 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended-HIM must pass LANG 0012 Academic Professional Communication (WSTC Prep) and must pass INFO 0001 Academic Skills for ICT (WSTC Prep) before enrolling in this unit Equivalent Subjects COMP 2007 - Computer Networking Fundamentals LGYA 5739 - Applied Data Communications and Networking COMP 2004 - Computer Networking Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of computer architecture, binary and hexadecimal numbering systems and programming principles. Students should also have a working knowledge of the World Wide Web. Learning Outcomes Identify the basic concepts and protocols of computer networking and internetworking.
Describe and define the internet architecture.
Explain the significance of the OSI and TCP/IP models, protocol stacks and their operation in computer networks.
Identify and describe modern technologies in computer networking.
Examine and review the functions of important OSI layer 2 and OSI layer 3 networking devices.
Apply and utilise the basic management and security requirements of computer networks.
Design, construct and test a simple LAN.
Subnet a network given design criteria. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation  10 N  N  Quiz  15 N  N  Practical Exam  20 N  N  Quiz  5 N  N  End-of-session Exam  50 N  N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7163) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (exit only) (7164) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Fast Track (7004) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038)