Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3019 Nutrition, Health and Disease Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301457 Coordinator Sunil Panchal Opens in new window Description In this subject you will explore the basic concepts of human nutrition in relation to various stages of the lifespan from infants to late adulthood. It also explores nutrition in relation to chronic health conditions such as obesity, cardiovascular disease and eating disorders. You will learn about the development of the Australian Dietary Guidelines and Nutrient Reference Values. You will also learn to make informed decisions with regard to nutritionally critical moments of the life span, emerging nutrition opinions or contemporary uses of nutrition in physical activity, sports and chronic health conditions. School Science Discipline Nutrition and Dietetics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects HLTH 2014 - Nutrition and Health 2 HLTH 2013 - Nutrition and Health 2 Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge An understanding of human nutrition, food and the metabolism of micro- and macro-nutrients and computer literacy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the principles of epidemiology and health trends within Australia and worldwide
Explain how the Australian Dietary Guidelines and Nutrient Reference Values are determined and used to assess nutritional adequacy at both an individual and population level
Evaluate the impact of nutrition on health across the life span
Synthesise scholarly evidence on topics related to nutrition and health
Critically analyse the role of nutrition in relation to a range of chronic health conditions
Critically analyse the role of nutrition in relation to physical activity, sports nutrition issues, diet choices such as veganism and vegetarianism, and controversial fad diets Subject Content 1. Principles of nutritional epidemiology
2. Health trends in Australia and worldwide
3. Concept, formulation and uses of the Australian Dietary Guidelines, Australian Guide to Healthy Eating, and Nutrient Reference Values (NRV)
4. Methods for assessing body composition and diet.
5. Nutritional requirements and food habits throughout key stages of the lifespan.
6. Relationship between nutrition and chronic metabolic and related diseases.
7. Relationship between nutrition and physical activity and sports nutrition issues.
8. Controversial issues in nutrition such as fad diets, and emerging opinions and misinformation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 x 20 minutes 20 N Individual N  Literature Review 1,200 words 35 N Individual N  Critical Review 4,000 words 30 N Group N  Presentation 5 minutes 15 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Sunil Panchal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Other Health (HLTH)