Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3018 Perspectives in Criminology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102037 Coordinator Erin Kruger Opens in new window Description Criminological knowledge in this subject is both theoretical and practical. The topics and debates are diverse and multiple as they relate to crime control and governance, crime commission, surveillance, forensics, and victimization in local, national, and international contexts. Crimes for consideration include organised and transnational crime, terrorism, state and war crimes, torture, genocide, environmental and corporate crime. These crimes will be evaluated through the lenses of globalization including borders and migration, risk positions, and science and technology aspects, with particular attention to marginalized and vulnerable populations. These topics are further considered in historical and contemporary contexts as they are approached independently, but also in conjunction with one another. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CULT 1005 AND
CULT 1024 Equivalent Subjects CULT 3006 - Contemporary Perspectives in Criminology Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points including the pre-requisite subjects listed above. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Integrate real-world historical and contemporary perspectives in criminology using research literature to develop critical thinking skills as they apply to taken-for-granted assumptions about key criminological issues, including marginalised populations, disabilities, and cultural environments. 
2. Evaluate a range of theoretical, philosophical, and sociological models of understanding in criminology using the prescribed research literature. 
3. Develop a critical understanding of science and technology perspectives in relation to forensic science to challenge predominant assumptions in forensic criminological contexts.  
4. Assess how knowledge of ‘crimes of the powerful’ including state, organized, corporate and environmental offending create often undetected and long-term harms and debate how the criminal justice system should adequately address these issues. Subject Content 1. Introduction to perspectives in criminology
2. Globalisation and the changing nature of criminal justice
3. The history, philosophy and sociology of criminology (*New)
4. Organised and transnational crime (*New)
5. Racial, cultural and ethnicity viewpoints (*New)
6. Corporate and environmental crimes
7. Science and technology positions (*New)
8. State crimes, war crimes and crimes against humanity
9. Forensic science outlooks (*New)
10. Mental health and disability considerations (*New)
11. Terrorism and counter-terrorism
12. Global criminal justice administration Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (1709) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Criminology (1710) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Major (0006) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Minor (0006) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Other Society and Culture (CULT)