Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7014 Gender and Genre Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102602 Coordinator Helen Basides Opens in new window Description This subject considers the intersection of gender and genre in various narrative forms. Through a variety of texts that may include polemic, conduct literature, plays, novels, poetry and film, students will examine the construction of masculinity and femininity within various genres, and consider the ways in which genres themselves may be gendered. Beginning in the seventeenth century, the subject also considers the strategies that women writers, in particular, have used to participate in literary production by adopting and adapting particular generic conventions. A consideration of the ways in which gender and genre may be connected also allows students to consider questions of literary production and circulation, literary value and reputation. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the connection between gender and genre in various narrative modes.
Analyse the construction of masculinity and femininity in various genres.
Evaluate ideas about the ways in which genres might be gendered.
Identify and analyse the ways in which writers have responded to assumptions about the gendered nature of particular narrative forms, authorship and readership.
Identify and analyse the ways in which writers, particularly women writers, have adopted and adapted generic conventions in order to reflect their experiences.
Explain and analyse the relationship between gender, literary production, literary circulation and reputation. Subject Content Debates about the connections between genre and gender.
Representations of masculinity and femininity in various narrative forms.
Women?fs writing and the woman writer, from the seventeenth century onwards.
Considerations of gender as they relate to: theme, character, voice and form.
Women?fs place in literary production.
The ideal reader, especially in discourses about the rise of the novel.
Fictional and non-fictional forms.
Examination of different text types: polemic, conduct literature, plays, novels, poetry, short story, essay, and film. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation: Seminar Presentation and Leadership  15 N Individual   Short Answer: Written Analytical Response 1,500 words 30 N Individual   Essay: Research Essay 3,000 words 55 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1833) Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831)