Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 0029 Statistics for Academic Purposes (WSTC) Credit Points 5 Legacy Code 900011 Coordinator Michael Casey Opens in new window Description Understanding, creating and working with statistics are fundamental skill requirements in many areas and career pathways within the arts, business, science and the humanities disciplines. This subject will provide students with a comprehensive overview of statistics in order to prepare them for success in first year university subjects of study where they will further develop their skills. Through both individual and group tasks students will use statistics to organize and display data as well as draw valid inferences, based on data, by using appropriate statistical tools. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Statistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects MATH 0028 Statistics for Academic Purposes (WSTC Prep) Assumed Knowledge Year 10 Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of the statistical terminology and use the correct notation.
Collect, organise and display data.
Calculate descriptive characteristics and describe data sets.
Calculate and describe the relationship between two variables and use simple linear regression to predict or estimate values.
Calculate probabilities.
Apply appropriate statistical methods to analyse data and make inferences.
Use computer software to display and analyse data. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory      Class Test   1 1 hour 20 N Individual   Report: Part A  10 N Individual   Report: Part B  25 N Individual   Report: Part C  5 N Individual    End of session Test 2 hours 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Mathematics (MATH)