Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4008 Nursing Honours Thesis B (Full-time) Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 400203 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description Research is a necessary undertaking toward the continued development of nursing science, research and practice. Nursing Honours Thesis in the full time mode is a 60 Credit Point  (CP) subject comprised of Nursing Honours Thesis A FT (20 CP) which is a Multi Term (MTS)  continuing subject to Nursing Honours Thesis B FT (40 CP). The subject provides an opportunity for students under the guidance of their academic supervisors to propose, plan and implement a research project related  to nursing, and work towards planning, developing and producing a written thesis due to be completed and submitted for examination in this subject, Nursing Honours Thesis B FT. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level or equivalent is required. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate a health or nursing related issue or problem in depth through a review of the literature;
Identify a researchable question related to a health or nursing issue or problem;
Develop a research proposal;
Obtain formal approvals for research, e.g. ethical approval, where required;
Perform data collection and data analysis relevant to the research proposal;
Contribute to discussions about the research process with professional colleagues; and
Produce a thesis of the prescribed length and format which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions. Subject Content Students are required to engage in scholarly work consistent with the expectation of an Honours program. Completion of an Honours degree requires the ability to be able to complete the compulsory significant research component, namely a written honours thesis of 15,000-20,000 words within a set time frame. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis No longer than 20,000 words of written text (this does not include the reference list or appendices) 100 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (Honours) (4529) Nursing (NURS)