Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1001 Introduction to Occupational Therapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400160 Coordinator Melissa Jammal Opens in new window Description  This subject introduces students to the profession of occupational therapy, conceptual foundations underpinning the profession, and areas of clinical practice.  Students will learn about the important and unique contribution made by occupational therapists in peoples lives to promote health and well-being. The important role of occupation in daily life will be discussed. In particular, this subject presents an overview of how occupational therapy reduces activity limitations people may have, and in doing so enhances the social participation for people of all ages and abilities.  The problem solving process used by occupational therapists to assist clients will be introduced. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define occupational therapy in respect to its purpose, role and national and international contribution to health care
Examine the history of occupational therapy professional development in Australia and overseas
Explore occupational therapy philosophy and theoretical concepts in relation to their application to clients with occupational challenges
Explore the impact of occupation on health and well-being across the lifespan
Explore the concepts of roles, activities and skills to understand the occupational nature of human beings
Identify international and national policies relevant to occupational therapy practice
Describe major occupational therapy practice areas in Australia and overseas
Apply the occupational therapy problem solving process to various client groups
Explain how occupational therapy promotes social participation for clients Subject Content 1.Definitions of occupational therapy
2.History and philosophy of occupational therapy
3.Role of occupation in promoting health and well-being
4.International and national policies and legislation relevant to occupational therapy eg. World Health Organisation policies, Australian health and welfare policies, anti-discrimination legislation
5.Occupational therapy practice areas
6.Occupational therapy problem solving process
7.Occupational therapy conceptual models
8.Occupational therapy approaches to improve social participation for specific client groups
9.Career options for occupational therapists Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Poster 1000 words + images 20 N Group N  Short Answer 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 1 x confirmation email from the Placement Hub. There is no specified length for this submission S/U N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Nikki Tulliani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)