Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7015 Urban Transformation Studio Environments Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301382 Coordinator Aso Haji Rasouli Opens in new window Description Urban Transformation Studio Environments focuses on the research and design aspects of a complex architectural project. It aims to teach students strategies to address crucial topics like whole life carbon, resilience, climate change, and environmental sustainability, emphasising the pivotal role of architects in tackling these issues. Through immersive studio work, students will gain insight into contemporary architectural practices and contemporary precedents, while actively collaborating with an extensive network of professionals, stakeholders, and site conditions. Students will be expected to apply knowledge of strategies and precedents to develop high-quality architectural projects, emphasising spatial, experiential, and technical excellence, alongside a robust understanding of key environmental issues. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR2025 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3761 Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1.Analyse complex projects incorporating diverse approaches to whole life carbon, resilience, climate change and environmental sustainability.
2.Implement a reflective and creative design process to engage with environmental issues including whole life carbon, resilience, climate change and environmental sustainability in architecture.
3.Effectively communicate design concepts and research at a professional manner to diverse audiences.
4.Create design options that address the aesthetic, functional, contextual and technical aspects of an architectural project and its site using graphic, three-dimensional modelling and visualisation techniques.
5.Propose appropriate design, materials, components and systems for the specific context that support a holistic and low carbon architectural approach. Subject Content 1. Complex environmental issues involved in architecture and urban transformation contexts. 
2. Skills in architectural design and creative imagination to develop a conceptual approach to environmental issues and climate-resilience. 
3. Strategies for reducing carbon emissions and footprint through a project's lifecycle as demonstrated through global  architectural and urban precedents. 
4. Independent research, analysis, data and evidence to inform design decisions regarding operational and embodied carbon, lifecycle, climate resilience and other environmental factors. 
5. Approaches to design technology, materials, site and contextual constraints to create and communicate a rigorous and architectural design proposal.
6. Analysis of the regulatory, social and ethical frameworks that architects operate within. Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop with required software, per program requirements.  Students are required to purchase consumables such as paper, card, plastic, plywood, adhesives, blades, and other essential materials for assessment tasks. Students will also need to pay for their own plotting and printing costs. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Drawings and/or models and 300 words 10 N Group N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models and  5 mins presentation 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models and  8 mins presentation 40 N Individual N  Portfolio Comprehensive nvironmental portfolio 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Aso Haji Rasouli Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761)