Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1012 English as an International Language Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102438 Coordinator David McInnes Opens in new window Description English is the first Global Language and the most important international Lingua Franca today. The teaching of English as a second or foreign language is a huge industry internationally, and a driver of export dollars in the Australian economy.  The teaching of English as an International Language (EIL) is a new area of study and it is indispensable for any student seeking to gain a competitive edge in an international career. This subject is a key introductory subject in the International English Major. It is designed to equip graduates with marketable skills across multiple areas, including International Relations, Marketing and Business, Interpreting and Translation, and TESOL. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline English as a Second Language Teaching Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss, in linguistic, cultural and historical terms, the essentials of an international language.
Identify and explain how Englishes differ across the globe.
Analyse the ways in which people use English to express notions of identity, culture and pragmatic meaning.
Identify the different aspects of miscommunication across Englishes. Subject Content The origins, history and spread of the English language
Linguistic concepts as applied to an International Lingua Franca
Semantic and Pragmatic differences and commonalities
Cultural norms and adaptation
Implications of World Englishes: ownership and standardisation
Teaching and learning International English Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 30 minutes 60 N Individual N  Reflection 60 minutes 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact David McInnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) International English, Major (0018) International English, Minor (0018) Teacher Education (TEAC)