Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4022 Studio: Design Synthesis Capstone Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301402 Coordinator James Berry Opens in new window Description This subject engages students in a significant project that synthesises creative thinking, design strategy and practical design skills in preparation to be 'work-ready' as a designer upon graduation. Students will apply the skills that they have acquired throughout their degree in core and specialised elective subjects toward their Design Capstone project. The amalgamation of multidisciplinary viewpoints with industry collaborators throughout the subject ensures a vibrant learning environment, culminating in well resolved design outcomes within a Work Integrated Learning (WIL) Framework with linkages to a real-world challenge. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique existing global design trends (within the overarching project theme) in relation to manufacturing, sustainability and entrepreneurial opportunities
Develop methods for responding to an advanced design project brief.
Apply a range of 2D and 3D design communication skills to propose a design solution to a complex problem or issue
Synthesise and apply design process, skills and knowledge to create innovative design solutions in multidisciplinary teams.
Present an evidence-based design solution that addresses local, national or global requirements Subject Content 1.Advanced Integrated Product Design Investigation
2.Applied local and international design standards
3.Advanced iterative design methods incorporating analogue and digital communication
4.Actionable Manufacturing Documentation
5.Sustainable Lifecycle Design
6.Industry and community-centred contextually responsive value proposition
7.Course-length Skills Synthesis
8.Managing creativity and innovation in teams Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Report - 10 pages, Process - 20 pages, Model - 1:1 30 N Group/Individual N  Applied Project Process - 20 pages, Engineering Drawings - 10 pages, Model - scale 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Model - 1:1, Posters - 2 x A2 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact James Berry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)