Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7036 Migration Practice and Theory 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201031 Coordinator Michael Morgan Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on practical aspects of migration practice as a registered migration agent in Australia.  The subject covers the practical role of migration agents in professional practice, the fundamental function of the Office of the Migration Agents Registration Authority (OMARA), the registration process involving migration agents, and provides a close analysis of the Code of Conduct. The subject provides a close examination of various aspects of running a migration agent business, including fees, client accounts, record keeping and the appointment and termination of services. The subject also provides an overview of the complaints and disciplinary regime involving registered migration agents. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7007 AND
LAWS 7003 AND
LAWS 7004 Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7038 OR
LAWS 7005 Equivalent Subjects LAWS 7028 - Migration Practice 1 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4913 - Visa Compliance Cancellation and Review 2 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply various statutory interpretation principles to a complex Australian migration law problem.
Analyse matters in accordance with ethical principles and the Code of Conduct required by a migration agent.
Examine standards applicable to the financial relationships established with clients.
Propose and justify solutions to migration problems in immigration law, policy and administrative practices.
Assess current and relevant information from a range of sources to assist in preparing migration advice.
Assist with the provision of immigration assistance and migration client files. Subject Content Working in Migration Advice.
Practising as a Migration Agent.
Fees, Client Accounts and Record Keeping.
Appointment and Termination of Services.
Complaints and Disciplinary Action. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Proposal 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jason Donnelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Marial Lewis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law (2819) Law (LAWS)