Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 3003 Building Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200292 Coordinator Christopher Maley Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide students with a good understanding of the law and dispute resolution mechanisms that regulate the conduct of the building industry and building practices e.g. work health and safety, contract law, workers compensation, awareness of industrial relations and dispute resolution. School Law Discipline Legal Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 9948 - Building Law 2 Assumed Knowledge Introduction to Business Law Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a thorough understanding of how the legal system works in relation to the building industry.
Demonstrate a thorough understanding of legal principles relevant to the building industry.
Apply understanding of legal principles to analyse and solve practical problems.
Communicate effectively and appropriately, displaying clear and logical structure using Plain English. Subject Content Contract Law and contract administration
Partnering
Causes of disputes
Methods of Dispute Resolution
Alternative Dispute Resolution
Court procedures, including Land & Environment Court
Local Government Laws
Development Application and Construction Certificate Application
Building and Construction Industry Security of Payments Act
Fair Work Act
Relevant Industrial Relations law Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 24 hours 15 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Christopher Maley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Christopher Maley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Building Surveying, Testamur Major (T088) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST)