Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3012 Global and Community Citizenship in Early Childhood Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102675 Coordinator Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window Description This subject explores the key concepts of learning and teaching in the areas of history, geography, civics and citizenship, and incorporates place studies, sustainability and environmental education. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies in birth to 5 years early childhood settings are a focus in this subject. The subject will explore a broad, complex and engaging field of study which reflects people as social beings who interact together and with the environment through and over time.  Perspectives including those of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, socio-cultural influences and place-based pedagogies will be investigated. Students will be encouraged to explore their own place in Australian society and the way in which this contributes to their professional identity and teaching practice. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Investigate local and global policies that respect cultural identity, rights and sustainability of marginal groups within society. 
Explain the central concepts and a range of strategies for teaching history, geography, civics and citizenship, social and environment education and their relevance for early childhood settings.
Design curriculum and assessment, that incorporates family and community contexts and theories of place and place pedagogies, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and contemporary perspectives on culture, diversity and inclusion.
Recommend appropriate community and educational resources to support children’s deep engagement with society.
Identify appropriate resources to assist children to express their understandings of society, place and culture.
Describe the critical role of research in broadening their own professional knowledge and the knowledge of their students. Subject Content Theory related to teaching history, geography, civics and citizenship, social and environmental education
Contemporary Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives
Cultural Identity and social policy
History, geography, civics and citizenship in the early childhood curriculum 
Sustainability education and nature play in childhood
The role of professional research in understanding history, geography, civics and citizenship and curriculum development Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Report 1,300 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,600 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)