Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 6001 Tourism, Heritage and Events Policy and Governance Credit Points 10 Coordinator Willem Coetzee Opens in new window Description This subject explores policy and governance in the tourism, heritage and events sectors. Students will explore current policies, and learn how to critically analyse them, especially in the context of sustainable development. The subject will also explore different governance structures in these sectors, and their influence on policy development and sustainability outcomes. After completing this subject, students will be well placed to take on governance, planning and policy roles to reshape the tourism, heritage and events sectors, both in Australia and internationally. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of tourism, heritage and/or events is desirable. Learning Outcomes Analyse the role of governance stakeholders in the tourism, heritage and events sectors in Australian and international contexts.
Critically analyse tourism, heritage and events policy and its role in the tourism, heritage and events sectors in Australian and international contexts.
Evaluate the relationship of tourism, heritage and event policies to sustainable development outcomes.
Propose sustainable tourism, heritage and event policies. Subject Content Tourism policy and governance.
Heritage policy and governance.
Festival and events policy and governance.
Policy and governance for sustainable development outcomes.
Policy analysis.
Governance structures. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,200 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 25 N Individual N  Proposal 1,500 words 45 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Willem Coetzee Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Sustainable Tourism and Visitor Economies, Major (0320) Tourism (TOUR)