Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2023 Introduction to Physical Cultural Studies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401413 Coordinator Nicki Taylor Opens in new window Description From 2020 this subject replaces 401239 - Introduction to Physical Cultural Studies. The subject explores the interconnection between physical movement, culture, and society. Students will investigate the relationships among physical culture in its various forms (including health, physical activity, sport, dance, leisure, and movement related practices) and broader contexts (pedagogical, social, cultural, political, economic, and technological). The subject will equip students with knowledge and skills in becoming active, reflective and critical learners in physical culture thereby enacting meaningful changes in sites of inequality. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 1005 - Foundations of Wellbeing PUBH 2014 - Introduction to Physical Cultural Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4659 Bachelor of Health Science (PDHPE), 4747 Bachelor of Health Science (HPE) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key tenets, methods and topics in physical cultural studies
Examine new ways of thinking about bodies, subjectivities and physical cultures
Identify sources of inequality in a range of physical cultural sites and address them to enable meaningful changes
Analyse problems regarding questions of gender, sexuality, class, ethnicity and subjectivity in relation to physical culture in the contemporary world Subject Content 1. Introduction to physical cultural studies
2. Thinking like a sociocultural theorist
3. Historical development in sport
4. Cultural reproduction and taste in physical culture
5. Cultures and bodies in physical culture
6. Identity and difference
7. Gender and sexuality
8. Globalisation and postcolonialism
9. Consumer and Consumption in sport
10. Cultural diversity in physical activity Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 minutes  30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes  20 N Group N  Applied Project 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Other Health (HLTH) Physical Activity and Health, Minor (0257) Sport Development, Minor (0254)