Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4007 Dermatology and Gerontology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401116 Coordinator Sean Lanting Opens in new window Description This subject builds on previous clinical and theoretical subjects to develop in-depth knowledge in dermatology and gerontology. Foundations of dermatology including the function and structure of the skin, assessment, differential diagnosis, aetiological factors and the management of disorders of the skin, with particular emphasis on common foot conditions and co-morbidities will be investigated. Population's trends, aging norms, pathology, co-morbidities and attitudes to aging will be explored. Particular focus will be placed on pathophysiology, mechanics, diagnosis and treatment options to maintain normal daily activities. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 2008 AND
REHA 3027 AND
REHA 2003 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7024 - Podiatric Techniques 3A and REHA 7025 - Podiatric Techniques 3B Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4708 - Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine or 4709 - Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Assumed Knowledge All core subjects are assumed knowledge. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the aetiology, pathology, clinical presentation and development of dermatological disorders of particular relevance to podiatric practice.
Discuss clinical presentation of dermatological conditions relevant to their possible pathological bases.
Differentially diagnose dermatological disorders and discuss the range of treatment options available with an emphasis on those disorders of particular relevance to podiatric practice.
Review the pharmaceutical agents that are available for the treatment of skin conditions, including proprietary and generic identifications and constituent ingredients.
Evaluate those dermatological conditions which fall outside the scope of podiatry and make referrals to other health care practitioners as necessary.
Discuss common medical conditions and co-morbidities in the aged population and their relevance to podiatry and interdisciplinary care.
Distinguish between normal age related changes and pathological conditions (physical and psychological) that may occur in the aged population.
Review pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic variations in different populations, and evaluate the impact on prescription drugs with particular reference to polypharmacy and other related circumstances.
Demonstrate podiatric techniques in the management of common podiatric conditions in the aged. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sean Lanting Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)