Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 7009 Web Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300693 Coordinator Kieran Luken Opens in new window Description This subject covers the technologies required for the construction and maintenance of web pages and web sites. It focuses on the web page and site design, markup languages, client-side technologies such as Cascading Style Sheets and Javascript, as well as server-side technologies such as web servers, database connectivity, and server side scripting. It also includes the use of multi-media, security, access rights, and the exploration of some of the latest technological wonders populated on the Internet. This subject is heavily orientated towards practical experience based on amplifying the theoretical concepts. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Create individual web sites and demonstrate a working knowledge of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and simple database interaction
Develop and implement prototype server-side and client-side applications, using scripting languages and style sheets
Demonstrate the understanding of XHTML, DHTML, XML, AJAX, Web Service, multi-media, and human interaction design principles
Adjust the site presentation and performance related to the use of mobile devices
Explore the merits and various methods to enable web security, auditing and access control for typical platforms and applications
Design and implement prototype web-based information systems for commercial applications
Identify and discuss variety of current web technologies, potential issues, and the possible future directions Subject Content - Internet and the markup languages: HTML, XHTML, XML and others; HTTP protocol and the client-server model of the web; page and site creation. - Methods of client interfacing to the web, web page design, current multimedia principles of web page layout and the human interface; Cascading Style Sheets. - Client-side scripting with JavaScript, making use of client-side scripts, including AJAX or DOM, to enable better user experience and interactivity. - Common web site security and access control, SSL, encryption, digital certificates, and basic copyright issues. - Web site organisation, web logging, site statistics, site administration, and content management systems. - Web servers, and the use of web development libraries or tools. - Latest trend and features of web technologies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 50 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 90 minutes 20 Y Individual Y  Practical 8 hours (5-8 linked webpages, depending on the student's own design) 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 15 hours (10-15 linked webpages, depending on the student's own site design) 40 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Information and Communications Technology (3701) Graduate Certificate in User Experience (3788) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Systems (INFS) Information and Communications Technology, Major (0232) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Web and Mobile Computing, Testamur Major (T010)