Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2006 Approved Industrial Experience Credit Points 0 Legacy Code 300655 Coordinator Vijay Jayasena Opens in new window Description This is a "Work Experience" subject, for which no student contribution fee is charged, nor will it consume Student Learning Entitlement (SLE). Students are required to obtain at least ten weeks, vocationally relevant, industrial experience during their course of study. The aim of this is to provide students with opportunities to apply theoretical concepts to real world situations, assisting their personal and professional development. Approved industrial experience aims to provide flexibility for students to pursue areas of interest and to assist in their selection of appropriate elective subjects in their program and to met the professional accreditation requirements as maybe required in your key program. Students are required to organise, formalise and validate at least ten weeks of university approved industry experience within an industrial, commercial or government situation during the course of their study. School Science Discipline Other Natural And Physical Sciences Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 2007 - Approved Industrial Experience LGYB 8194 - Approved Industrial Experience Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Work Experience Report  S/U N Individual Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)