Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2004 Anatomy of the Thorax and Abdomen Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300894 Coordinator Manisha Dayal Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the systems anatomy studied during first year, and explores the regional anatomy of the contents and walls of the human thorax and abdominopelvic cavities. Emphasis is placed on the relationship between structures, and the nexus between form and function. Cadaveric specimens are used in this subject to illustrate the array of normal anatomical variation. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1010 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program code 3755 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3758 Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science , 3673 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3657 Bachelor of Medical Science/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology, or 3682 Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced), 3733 Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) or 6002 Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science and have successfully completed 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify structures within and associated with the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities on cadaveric specimens in addition to models and graphic material.
Explain the functional anatomy of the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic regions.
Analyse and explain functional and spatial relationships between structures in the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic regions.
Discuss the embryological development of the intraembryonic coelom, the subsequent major cavities and associated major intraperitoneal and retroperitoneal viscera.
Identify and discuss normal anatomical variations of the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic regions.
Describe common abnormalities in the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic regions, and explain their anatomical basis and functional consequences. Subject Content 1. thoracic wall
2. thoracic cavity and viscera
3. abdominal wall
4. abdominal cavity and viscera
5. pelvic wall and floor
6. pelvic cavity and viscera
7. vasculature of thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities
8. innervation of thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities
9. muscles of the back
10. vertebral column
11. embryological development of major thoracic, abdominal and pelvic viscera Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review Up to 1000 words, 10mins 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 45 mins 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 45 mins 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Manisha Dayal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Medical Studies (MEDI) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)