Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 7017 Probabilistic Graphical Models Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301365 Coordinator Oliver Obst Opens in new window Description Modelling data provides us with a method for inference, but there are many occurrences when interest lies in the reasoning behind the decision making. In this subject, students learn to model processes and the reasoning behind the processes using probabilistic graphical models. The subject investigates the construction and application of model-based approaches for complex systems. Students will manually create models based on prior knowledge and investigate methods of learning model structures from data, which can be used to make decisions under uncertainty. Topics covered include Monte Carlo Methods, Decision Theory, Bayesian networks, Markov networks, and the use of information theory. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Statistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 7016 Assumed Knowledge Probability, Linear Algebra, Basic Programming. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Manually construct probabilistic models for specific data.
Automatically construct probabilistic models by learning from data.
Use the models to make decisions under uncertainty.
Accurately represent a probabilistic model using a graphical representation. Subject Content 1.Network representation and graphical models
2.Probabilistic models and entropy
3.Inference in graphical models
4.Learning graphical models Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 6x40min 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 15 pages 40 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Oliver Obst Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Data Science (3751) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Data Science (3735) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Mathematics (MATH)