Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 4005 Major Design Project Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102279 Coordinator Dan Johnston Opens in new window Description In this year-long subject students will develop a self-directed project from initiation to completion, in consultation with an academic supervisor. The first semester involves engaging in background research to facilitate creative development. Students will survey the field for their project identifying precedents and contexts, leading to experimentation and exploration of a range of potential options and addressing any arising issues, to develop a proof of concept. In the second semester students will develop the work to completion, through an iterative process of prototyping, reflection and analysis. The completed work will be prepared to a professional standard for display at a showcase event, It is expected that there will be a documented developmental process undertaken consistently across the year, resulting in the final work, which will be a professional outcome, relevant to a field of Visual Communication design.  Students are expected to be self-motivated, and work as an independent professional practitioner throughout the duration of the subject. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 3003 - Design Research Project Equivalent Subjects DESN 4001 - Communication Design Major Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1571 B. Design (Visual Communication), 1737 B Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) or 6011 Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) and achieve 240cps before enrolling in this subject. Please note: students must enrol in DESN 4005 Major Design Project in both Autumn and Spring sessions in order to receive final grades and credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop a range of relevant research findings around a project theme, based on selected literature, precedent design examples, and project context..
Devise a self-directed brief that responds to an identified issue or area of interest within the broad discipline areas of Visual Communication.
Critically assess the appropriateness of a range of concepts, and the visualisation of these, in order to improve the design solution.
Produce and present a designed outcome that demonstrates an understanding of relevant professional contexts and utilises appropriate media, processes and strategies.
Employ an independent approach to learning and exercise an appropriate range of project management and communication skills. Subject Content Lectures on creative inquiry and project development
Regular Seminar discussions of student project work in progress, where students present a range of approaches in selected media forms towards their project execution 
Presentations of student work to lecturers, peer panels, and for exhibition 
Student discussion forums where ongoing peer learning is encouraged Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Design work plus 1,000 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation Design work plus 5 minute presentation 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 4 x 5 Minute Presentations 20 N Individual Y  Presentation • Design work  • 10 minute presentation  • graduation exhibition display 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dan Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dan Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic and Design (DESN)