Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7008 Introduction to Biostatistics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401077 Coordinator Paul Fahey Opens in new window Description Most professions in the health sciences need to read and interpret statistics relating to individual health status, interpret health risks in communities, and engage in the evaluation of interventions, or impact of health policies or programs. Many public health practitioners are actively involved in surveillance, quantitative research and/or evaluation.  This subject provides students with the fundamental skills they need to analyse and interpret results from quantitative data collections. Content includes descriptive statistics, undertaking comparisons between groups, quantifying associations between variables, and statistical power.  The subject is highly applied with the main focus being on interpretation and appraisal of statistical results and conducting analyses using statistical software. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge High school mathematics (arithmetic, formulas and algebra, reading graphs). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Select appropriate descriptive statistics and graphs for different data types and produce these from a data set using statistical software.
Explain key concepts such as statistical inference, the central limit theorem, sampling distributions, probability distributions, confidence intervals, hypothesis tests, etc
List the key steps required to produce a confidence interval and to conduct a hypothesis test
Use statistical terms and symbols correctly when reviewing and interpreting statistical material
Compute statistical power or required sample size for a confidence interval or hypothesis test
Select appropriate statistical analyses to address a given research question and implement these analyses on a data set using statistical software
Interpret the output of statistical analyses clearly and correctly in a written report
Appraise the appropriateness of statistical results relative to all relevant considerations: including the research question, data types, shape of distribution, statistical power and other, procedure specific, assumptions. Subject Content 1. Data and data types (categorical, ordinal, quantitative, etc)
2. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, median, quartiles, frequency, relative frequency) and graphs (bar chart, histogram, scatterplot, boxplots, run charts, etc)
3. Using statistical software
4. Statistical inference (populations, random samples and the probability relationship between them)
5. Probability distributions (binomial and normal), what they represent and how they are used
6. Confidence intervals as a method of statistical inference and the role of the central limit theorem
7. Hypothesis tests as a method of statistical inference, the 5 steps in hypothesis testing
8. t-procedures for statistical inference on means and mean differences
9. Chi-square procedures for statistical inference on associations between categorical variables
10. Statistical power and sample size in relation to one sample and difference between two sample confidence intervals and hypothesis tests only
11. Correlation and multiple regression models and associated confidence intervals and hypothesis tests
12. Nonparametric alternatives to t-procedures Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Short Answer 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Fahey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Paul Fahey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Fahey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Paul Fahey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Biomedical, Testamur Major (T055) Complementary Therapies (CMPL) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Graduate Certificate in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4718) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Public Health (4705) Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery (4766) Graduate Diploma in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4717) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Public Health (4704) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Cardiac Sonography (4751) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Public Health (4702) Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Ag, Env and Related (AGEN) Other Health (HLTH) Public Health (PUBH) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021) Radiography (RADI) Telecommunication and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T115)