Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 7001 Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Events Credit Points 10 Coordinator Willem Coetzee Opens in new window Description Sustainability has become a major issue in the contemporary visitor economy, including in the tourism, hospitality, events and related sectors. However, stakeholders do not necessarily understand the specific aspects of sustainability which their business has an impact upon or is impacted by. Stakeholders in tourism, hospitality and events are not always familiar with the tools of sustainability assessment and have limited comprehension of how a robust sustainability audit can aid in reducing operational costs improving corporate image and increasing customer patronage. This subject will provide students with an opportunity to undertake a sustainability audit from an environmental, economic and social perspective. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 5001 - Sustainable Tourism and Heritage Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Definitions, concepts, historical evolution, and the importance of the main sustainability pillars (social, economic, environment).
	 
By conducting a sustainability audit, evaluate key sustainability issues facing tourism, hospitality and events. Issues such as environmental sustainability (impacts, carbon, waste, resources, sustainable practices in energy, water, waste, and infrastructure); Economic sustainability (challenges, responsible practices, ethical considerations, CSR, partnerships and spending patterns); and Social Impacts on communities, cultures, and traditions.
	 
Critically analyse real-world tourism, hospitality and events problems using scholarly ideas about sustainable auditing and the challenges of implementation.
	 
Exercise reflexivity around how personal and professional practice can impact on sustainability.
	 
Communicate critical scholarly concepts in accessible ways to promote sustainable tourism, hospitality and events in the future. Subject Content Sustainability in the context of Tourism, Hospitality and Events
The role of sustainable tourism, hospitality and events in development and revitalisation strategies
Perspectives from the North / South divide.
A review of the methods of assessing the progress of the visitor economy towards sustainability goals.
Sustainability auditing and the challenges of its implementation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 500 words per student 30 N Group N  Portfolio 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1938) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (exit only) (1937) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management), Minor (0360) Tourism (TOUR)