Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7010 Clinical Psychopathology 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101812 Coordinator Craig Gonsalvez Opens in new window Description This subject provides a comprehensive examination of the nature, context and assessment of adult psychopathology. Students will review and critically evaluate the origins and structure of current diagnostic systems, and examine the diagnostic criteria for a range of major psychopathological syndromes and the range of contexts within which they may arise. Skills in balancing the assessment of adult disorders with counselling and engagement through a clinical diagnostic interview will be acquired. Beginning level skills in the formation of adult disorders will also be acquired. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1201 - Clinical Psychopathology LGYA 0485 - Advanced Psychopathology Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1546 Master of Psychology (Clinical Psychology) or 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the history and characteristics of the DSM and ICD and critically evaluate their strengths and limitations as classificatory systems of adult psychopathology.
Outline the diagnostic features and associated characteristics of the major DSM-5 psychological disorders (anxiety, mood, trauma and obsessive-compulsive and related disorders).
Describe the current major theories of the aetiologies of these disorders, identify risk and resilience factors and understand the diverse contexts within which such difficulties may arise.
Demonstrate competence in the assessment of adult psychopathology and making relevant and adequate diagnoses, case formulations and management plans for common psychological disorders. Conduct the clinical diagnostic interview in an interpersonally and culturally sensitive manner. Subject Content Theoretical and empirical foundations of psychopathology.
Clinical assessment of psychopathology.
Current classification systems (DSM-5 and contrasted to ICD 10, where relevant)
Anxiety disorders.
Mood disorders (including depressive and bipolar disorders).
Trauma and stressor-related disorders.
Obsessive-compulsive and related disorders.
DSM as a construction of disorder and relational problems that may be a focus of clinical attention. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answers – Exam 
Part A: Mid Semester
Part B: End of semester; both in class 1 hour (Part A)
1 hour (Part B) 30 Y Individual   Practical – Clinical Skills Presentation 20 minutes 30 Y Individual   Clinical Diagnostic Interview
a. Practical skills demonstration (essential competencies)
b. Practical skills demonstration (flexibility, reliability, generalisability) 50 minutes  40 Y Individual Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV)