Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7011 Researching Convergent Media Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101962 Coordinator Navin Doloswala Opens in new window Description The contemporary creative industries landscape is characterised by the breakdown of traditional media silos and the transformation of media production and consumption practices. Media, marketing and creative professionals are now required to understand and connect with their audiences across multiple media platforms and to undertake diverse research deploying many new methodologies. The aim of this subject is to provide students with an historical, geopolitical and theoretical introduction to research in the creative industries. The case studies and topics covered vary from semester to semester and can include data visualisation, digital ethnography, digital games, community media, digital arts, activist networks, social media and cross platform projects. Using current media theory, design theories, and research methodologies, students will select, analyse and contextualise case studies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Information Systems, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1632 - Methods and Case Studies in Convergent Media Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify and articulate the key themes associated with creative industries research and contexts.
Explain the main theoretical issues associated with the theory and practice of convergent media through participation in the MCM wiki and written work.
Outline the precedents and archaeologies of convergent media and discuss them in relation to their research question.
Demonstrate competency in critically evaluating a research question and/or case study and the associated theoretical context.
Select and apply appropriate research methodologies to their research question in the case study/ paper assignment.
Apply advanced skills in self-directed research and writing to independently identify and articulate an appropriate research question for the case study or paper.
Identify and articulate the key themes associated with convergent media concepts, research, and contexts.
Explain the main theoretical issues associated with the theory and practice of research for the creative industries.
Outline the precedents and archaeologies of the creative industries and discuss them in relation to their research question.
Select and apply appropriate research methodologies to their research question in the case study/ paper assignment.
Apply advanced skills in self-directed research and writing to independently identify and articulate an appropriate research question for the case study or paper. Subject Content Module 1: Understanding Convergent Media precedents and archaeologies
Module 2: Researching Convergent Media design and practice
Module 3: Contextualising Convergent Media within current technological, social and political terrains
Topics covered can include: the cultural logic of convergent media; emerging ecologies and genres; affective experience and embodied cognition; the digital divide, economic development and convergent technologies; broadband futures; new media art; locative media; collective intelligence and social networking.
Understanding precedents and archaeologies in research for the creative industries.
Researching design and practice in the creative industries
Contextualising the creative industries within current technological, social and political terrains
Drawing from creative industries research case studies topics covered in this subject can include: emerging ecologies and genres in the creative industries; affective experience and embodied cognition; the digital divide, economic development and convergent technologies; broadband futures; new media art; locative media; collective intelligence and social networking. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words per entry 25 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 200 words per text source 25 N Individual N  Essay Essay: 2500 words
Practice-led research: Practice work
plus 1200 to 1500 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Communication and Media (COMM) Digital Futures, Testamur Major (T005) Digital Knowledge and Innovation, Major (0223) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)