Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7004 Dissertation Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 401079 Coordinator Amit Arora Opens in new window Description This subject requires students to complete a substantial piece of independent research. Dissertations will involve the in-depth examination of a particular topic/question, and should demonstrate evidence of ability to undertake sustained critical analysis. The dissertation provides an opportunity for students to demonstrate that they can consolidate knowledge acquired throughout their course of study, understand how existing evidence/information relates to research topics, and how their own work adds to this body of knowledge. Independent thinking is required, including the ability to critique one's own work and that of others, as well as articulating the implications of their own research and support their findings through their written dissertation.  Students will have the opportunity to participate in workshops where they will gain skills in defining a clear research question, preparing a formal research proposal, conducting a literature review, ethics and research, and formal writing at a professional standard. Findings of student work with be presented at an end of semester research seminar. This subject can also be taken over two semesters (see 401282 Dissertation (Part-Time)). School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) For students enrolled in 4702 Master of Public Health or 4698 Master of Health Science courses only
AGEN 7005 Research Protocol Design and Practice
and
HLTH 7008 Introduction to Biostatistics
OR
HLTH 7025 Healthcare Data for Decision making
OR
HLTH 7015 Qualitative Research Methodology in Health
For students enrolled in 3749 Master of Science and 4738 Master of Epidemiology courses only
HLTH 7008 Introduction to Biostatistics
For all students
PUBH 7016 Introduction to Epidemiology Equivalent Subjects The two units below are equivalent to each other

HLTH 7004 Dissertation (Full-time)
HLTH 7020 Dissertation (Part-time) Restrictions To enrol in this unit, students must be enrolled in a post-graduate program and have a GPA of 5.5 or greater. Students must have an approved Masters Dissertation Proposal before enrolling. Students must submit prior to enrolment a proposal no longer than 3 pages comprising the following: 1. Proposed title 2. Background and rationale 3. Research objectives 4. Research plan (including study design, data sources, and analytic strategy) 5. Expected outcomes and benefits 6. Risk identification and mitigation plan 7. Ethical implications 8. Budget and how research costs are to be met (if required) 9. Timeline 10. Supervisor endorsement. 11. References Approval of the Dissertation Proposal must be provided by the subject Coordinator to ensure that the project meets the expected scale and scope of a 40 credit point Dissertation. For students enrolled in the Master of Public Health, Master of Health Science or Master of Epidemiology, they are also required to have completed 80cp before they can enrol in this subject. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that the student would have completed core (or foundational) subjects associated with their Masters program, ideally in relevant research design and practice related disciplines. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Argue for the significance of research and their impact on society
Systemically and critically analyse literature and information sources that are related to the identified research question / hypothesis
Justify a research proposal in relation to its significance in the literature, its anticipated impact and the ethical considerations involved
Apply appropriate research methods and evaluation processes to collate and critically analyse/interpret data
Compose a scientific research report that synthesises research findings.
Effectively communicate/disseminate findings of a research project to a variety of audiences Subject Content Research proposal development in consultation with supervisor(s)
Data collection, collation, and analysis
Interpretation and dissemination of research findings in the form of a professionally-written research report
1. Research proposal development in consultation with supervisor(s) and subject co-ordinator feedback
2. Data collection, collation, and analysis
3. Interpretation and dissemination of research findings in the form of a professionally-written dissertation or a draft journal article
4. Dissemination of research findings in the form of a seminar presentation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 3-4 pages S/U Y Individual Y  Thesis up to 20,000 words for Dissertation/up to 8,000 words for draft Journal article 90 Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Public Health (4702) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Health (HLTH)