Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1040 Engineering Mathematics and Computing (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window Description The subject aims to equip you with fundamental skills in calculus and computer programming as essential tools for problem-solving and data analysis in engineering. You will be introduced to basic calculus (differentiation and integration) and their common applications in engineering. The subject will also introduce you to computer programming and other technology tools for calculation and data analysis and visualisation. This subject will also include extensive practical work and problem-solving activities focusing on algorithmic approach to problem-solving. You will be able to apply the acquired skills and knowledge in various engineering subjects as well as in your future careers. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Use functions to describe and model quantities in engineering.
Use differential calculus to study how various engineering quantities change.
Use integral calculus to calculate various quantities based on their density functions.
Apply basic programming control structures including sequence, selection, and iteration to create computer programs based on algorithmic solutions.
Use mathematical skills and logical thinking to solve and communicate challenging and complex problems where solution is not immediately obvious. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words or equivalent 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 700 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Mathematics (MATH)