Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7054 Social Science Research Project Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102817 Coordinator Nidhi Wali Opens in new window Description This subject requires students to design, plan and manage a research project using existing literature and/or data sets. Students will engage critically and analytically with the literature in the field, and undertake research to evaluate and report on research findings. Under the guidance of an academic supervisor students will develop a research question, conduct a systematic review of literature/write a case study/work on an existing dataset, and write a thesis on a topic related to the social sciences. Through this process, students will gain insight into the various components of the research process. Further, they will demonstrate an ability to identify issues, synthesise salient information, and articulate original ideas to make a practical contribution to the existing body of knowledge relevant to the social sciences. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 7052 - Humanitarian and Development Research Project Restrictions Students must have completed 80 credit points in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Argue for the significance of research and their impact on society
Systemically and critically analyse literature and information sources that are related to the identified research question / hypothesis
Justify a research proposal in relation to its significance in the literature, its anticipated impact and the ethical considerations involved
Apply appropriate research methods and evaluation processes to collate and critically analyse/interpret data
Compose a scientific research report that synthesises research findings.
Effectively communicate/disseminate findings of a research project to a variety of audiences Subject Content 1. The scientific method: Origins and general philosophical approaches
2. Qualitative research methods (Philosophy of qualitative research, observation, good practices and criteria, qualitative interviewing, qualitative analysis, mixed methods)
3. Quantitative research methods (research design, measurement, sampling)
4. Practice, Ethics and Integrity
5. Research proposal development
6. Project Report
7. Presentation of research findings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 3,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Report 12,000 words 60 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Nichole Georgeou Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)