Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7062 Pelvic Floor Surgery Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401316 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   This subject provides the student with in depth knowledge of procedures to treat pelvic floor disorders. The performance of Pelvic Floor Surgery and the ability to avoid complications is paramount in order to produce a safe environment for the patient.   This subject will allow the student to explore and critically  appraise various aspects of Pelvic Floor Surgery and utilise the evidence in the literature to support any conclusions made. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7046 Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7024 Pelvic Floor Function and Dysfunction Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of an Advanced Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) and satisfactory completion of the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery [i.e., Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program]. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Review surgical principles involved in performing Pelvic Floor Surgery, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques
Effectively diagnose and manage complications related to Pelvic Floor Surgery
Assess factors responsible for prolapse and urinary incontinence
Evaluate procedures used to avoid and treat recurrence
Critically appraise the literature to improve clinical judgment and surgical competency
Reflect on theoretical and practical aspects of Pelvic Floor Surgery to enhance professional practice Subject Content 1.Surgical principles of Pelvic Floor Surgery, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques
2.Surgical techniques used at Pelvic Floor Surgery to prevent complications.
3.Procedures used in prolapse and urinary incontinence
4.Literature review on prolapse and urinary incontinence procedures Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Total 5,000 words: 1a. Literature Review 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. Reflection ~ 1,000 words (SLOs 2, 5, 6)

 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)