Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7060 Adnexal Surgery Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401319 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   The performance of Adnexal Surgery and the ability to avoid complications is paramount in order to produce a safe environment for the patient. The ability to diagnose and successfully manage complications, should they occur, is a necessary part of every surgeon's makeup. The preoperative assessment of adnexal masses is to be considered, with data provided to help avoid the inadvertent operation on malignant lesions by the generalist.  This subject will allow the student to explore various aspects of adnexal surgery and review evidence in the literature to support any conclusions made by the student. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7046 Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7018 Laparoscopic Adnexal Surgery Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4766 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery or 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of an Advanced Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) and satisfactory completion of the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery [ie, Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program]. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate surgical principles involved in performing Adnexal Surgery, focusing on minimally invasive techniques including strategies for specimen removal
Diagnose and manage complications, with particular reference to laparoscopic surgical methods utilised when returning to theatres
Evaluate various approaches to Adnexal Surgery including the benefits and limitations of each technique
Critically appraise the evidence, with an emphasis on strategies to avoid inadvertent operations on malignant lesions
Reflect on aspects of Adnexal Surgery in gynaecological surgery to enhance professional practice Subject Content 1. Surgical principles of Adnexal Surgery, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques
2. Surgical techniques used in minimally invasive surgery to prevent complications including the need for laparotomy.
3. Literature review on Adnexal Surgical procedures with emphasis on strategies to avoid inadvertent operations on malignant lesions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Total 5,000 words: 1a. Literature Review 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. Reflection ~1,000 words (SLOs 2, 5) 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)