Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7016 Contemporary Organisation Behaviour Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200788 Coordinator Ataus Samad Opens in new window Description Contemporary Organisation Behaviour has been designed to offer you tools which can help you manage people in an increasingly complex organisational climate. Therefore, the objectives of the subject focus on critically evaluating how organisations, groups and teams, and individual behaviour, can affect work performance and productivity. You will explore in depth a range of Organisational Behaviour variables using theory as the foundation for evaluation and/or research while developing skills in professional practice for communicating, collaborating and critically reflecting. You will have opportunities to relate and apply concepts to your work experience and context learning what might be most relevant to your future plans in management. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7017 - Contemporary Organisation Behaviour Incompatible Subjects BUSM 7060 Management Skills Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2757 Graduate Certificate in Business Administration or 2762 Executive Master of Business Administration. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate organisational behaviour theories and practice demonstrating knowledge of management including current and future trends and issues in the discipline.
Justify improvement to professional management practice supported by critical analysis of the relevant organisational behaviour literature and logical reasoning.
Communicate complex information and innovative solutions of the discipline to diverse audiences and in a variety of formats and contexts.
Reflect critically on the role of the self and others in professional management practice identifying relevant theoretical frameworks.
Collaborate with diverse others in contributing to team goals including team building, decision-making, and ethical practice. Subject Content 1. Individual differences
2. Motivation
3. Social perception
4. The ir/rational manager
5. Team development
6. Trust within the organisation
7. Values and organisational change
8. Behavioural ethics
9. A multi-frame perspective of organisation & Competing Value Framework
10. The future of the Organisation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Research Report 1,500 words (maximum) 40 N Individual   2a .	Written Report 2,500 words (maximum) 30 N Group   2b.	Oral Presentation 20 minutes (maximum) 10 N Group   Reflective Portfolio 1,000 word equivalent (maximum) 20 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)