Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3012 Sport Development Internship B Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401244 Coordinator Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window Description The Sport Development Internship provides students with the opportunity to experience the practice of sport development in the workplace through a supervised placement in the sport and active recreation industry.   Internships will allow students to relate their acquired academic knowledge and to apply their skills to real-world applications in an industry setting.  Students will have the opportunity to observe, develop and practice skills in negotiation, problem identification, program planning, implementation and evaluation in a range of settings.  The work completed during the Sport Development Internship also lays the foundations for the Sport Development Applied Project to follow.Students will complete a minimum of 100 hours of placement/internship as part of this unit. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects SPRT 3014 Sport Management Applied Project BUSM 3066 Sport Management Internship Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4741 Bachelor of Sport Development. Students must complete 160 Credit Points of core subjects and electives in 4741. Assumed Knowledge A developed level of knowledge in Sport Development. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate academic theory with real world applications in a professional setting.
Evaluate the structures and processes employed in the planning, implementation and evaluation of sports development projects at the organisation.
Identify and prioritize organisational areas for development and formulate specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and timely goals that support the development of sport at the organisation.
Apply acquired academic knowledge and skills to the development of strategies to achieve set goals.
Work professionally and effectively in a team environment to achieve set goals. Subject Content 1. Work Placement: ~ 100 hours of supervised industry experience
2. During their placements students will integrate the acquired academic theory in sport development with real world applications at their hosting organizations.
3. Working with their hosting organisations, students will also lay the foundation for the Sport Development Applied project to follow. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must have submitted a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Reflection 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 100 hours of placement S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)