Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 1016 Foundations of Networking and Cyber Security (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window Description In our interconnected modern world, understanding computer networks is fundamental for future ICT professionals. This subject will equip you with the basics of computer networking and internet architecture, covering OSI and TCP/IP models. You will explore modern networking technologies, authentication methods, and basic cybersecurity principles. You will also gain hands-on experience designing and troubleshooting a simple LAN and subnetting a network. This subject will also begin to prepare you for industry-based networking certifications such as the CCNA. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Networks and Communications Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Examine the foundational concepts, protocols, and architecture of computer networking and the internet. 
Analyse the significance of OSI and TCP/IP models in computer networks, including networking devices in OSI layers 2 and 3. 
Identify modern technologies and authentication methods in computer networking, and their role in managing access and addressing security concerns in organisations. 
Evaluate basic cyber security principles used to protect networks and systems in organisations.
Design, construct, test, and troubleshoot a simple LAN, including the ability to subnet based on design criteria. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 hrs x 6 practicals 40 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)