Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 3011 Power and Machines Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window Description This subject develops an understanding of the basic concepts of power and machines, including modern power systems and transformers, in addition to the fundamentals of electromechanical energy conversion. Students engage in practical activities to develop knowledge and skills in magnetic circuits,  balanced and unbalanced three-phase power systems, and transformers. These concepts comprise essential knowledge for electrical engineers. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 2001 OR
ELEC 2013 Learning Outcomes Analyse magnetic circuits with and without permanent magnet materials
Analyse magnetically coupled circuits.
Analyse balanced and unbalanced 3-phase power systems.
Apply theoretical knowledge of electrical and magnetic circuits 
Analyse the construction and performance of 3-phase and single phase transformers at different loads.
Evaluate basic concepts of energy conversion.
Conduct laboratory experiments in a safe, responsible and professional manner that replicates real-world scenarios Subject Content Historical Development, Arguments of AC versus DC. 
Balanced and unbalanced three phase power systems, Single phase and three-phase circuits.
General arrangement of a power system, interconnected systems, standard voltage levels.
Distribution systems and substations, load characteristics and tariff structure and objectives of system protection and earthing systems.
Magnetic circuits with permanent magnets, fundamentals and properties of permanent magnet materials
Transformers (Construction, Equivalent circuits, Performance, Losses and efficiency, Voltage regulation and tests of transformers), Determination of equivalent circuit parameters and Three-phase transformers 
Electromagnetic energy conversion principles; DC and AC machine fundamentals, Practical considerations and design limitations. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours 25 N Individual Y  Practical 3 hours (per practical) 25 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahmood Nagrial Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)