Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 1001 Concepts in Human Anatomy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301126 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window Description This subject provides a basic understanding of human embryological development, anatomical terminology, and a range of foundation concepts in human anatomy.  Students must attend a 'wet' laboratory session where the learning of anatomy will be enhanced through the study of human cadaveric material. Wet laboratory sessions are not available on all campuses, and therefore students will need to travel to other campuses in order to attend. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 1013 - Introduction to Anatomy
NATS 1002- Concepts in Human Anatomy (WSTC) Restrictions Because of space and resource limitations, this subject will be restricted to students in the following programs: 3673 Bachelor of Medical Science 3682 Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced) 3733 Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) 3589 Bachelor of Science (Forensic Science) 3755 Bachelor of Medical Science 3758 Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science and MT3022 Forensic Science Assumed Knowledge HSC Biology. Learning Outcomes Use anatomical terminology correctly.
Describe the process of human development from fertilisation to organogenesis
Describe the major structural levels of organisation in the human body
Identify and describe the general features of the major tissue types and explain their relationship with major structural levels of organisation
Describe and apply the basic principles of the integumentary and endocrine systems
Describe and apply the basic principles of osteology: bone formation and repair, classifications and functions, names of major bones
Describe and apply the basic principles of arthrology: functional and structural joint classifications
Describe and apply the basic principles of myology: skeletal muscle classification and functions
Identify and describe the anatomy of the body cavities. Identify and describe the major organ systems that occupy these cavities and the physical and functional relationships of these systems to one another. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz - 1x online worksheet Available online for completion for 1 week. Opens in week 2 10 N Individual   3x MCQ mini tests (progressive – assessing new material covered since last test. Equally weighted) 3 x  50 mins each
(20% x 3)  60 N Individual   End of session exam 40 minutes
 30 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)