Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3077 Sustainable Futures Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101569 Coordinator Sebastian Pfautsch Opens in new window Description In this subject we will explore the questions 'can we create a sustainable society? If so what would it look like and how could it be done; is it possible to live ethically with each other and the planet?' While major contemporary theoretical concepts will be explored the emphasis is on developing sustainable alternatives to the way we now live both locally and globally. Particular attention will be paid to thinking ecologically, postcolonial development and issues of race and gender. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Compare and contrast contemporary theoretical approaches to sustainable development
Apply key concepts and theories to practical solutions for sustainable living
Critically reflect upon major critiques of sustainability and development theories and practices i.e. postcolonial perspectives; ecofeminism and gender.
Create sustainable solutions to a key issue of sustainable living
Recognise key theories and concepts as presented in class and reading materials. Subject Content Discourses of development, globalisation and sustainability
Post colonialism
Ecofeminism
Social movements and activism for sustainability
Developing diversity
Sustainable consumption: agriculture, food & resources
Living spaces and places: urban, regional and rural planning and design Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 400 words 10 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 300 words 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Pfautsch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Pfautsch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Global Sustainability, Minor (0196) Human Rights, Protection and Development, Major (0095) Humanitarian and Development Studies, Major (0332) Peace and Development Studies, Major (0027) Peace and Development Studies, Minor (0027) Social Ecology, Minor (0215) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainable Development, Major (0163) Sustainable Futures, Minor (0035) Urban Evolution, Minor (0313)