Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 2019 Systems Programming 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300167 Coordinator Chun Ruan Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the knowledge and skills required for the design, writing and support of technical software and other such functions normally falling within the role of the systems programmer. It provides for detailed study of a systems programming environment and its application to systems programming tasks. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 2015 OR
COMP 2016 OR
COMP 2020 OR
COMP 2014 OR
ELEC 1006 AND
ELEC 1001 Restrictions Students in Bachelor of Engineering, Bachelor of Engineering (Advanced) or Bachelor of Engineering Science must be enrolled in one of the Majors attached to the program. Assumed Knowledge This subject requires a knowledge base of at least the level of a completed first year in a professional Computing degree.   Ability to apply fundamental concepts in data structures, algorithms, programming principles will be assumed. Learning Outcomes Exhibit facility with the predominant systems programming language - C.
Demonstrate their understanding of the interface to the operating system by applying this knowledge to write and explain programs making system calls.
Discuss the nature of a systems program and put into practice the canons of good programming style and of sound software engineering in designing and writing short system utilities.
Analyse and maintain longer and more complex programs.
Demonstrate further development and reinforcement of their grasp on abstract concepts of data and programming structures by being able to explain how these ideas are realized in a specific programming language and environment.
Identify the Central role of concurrency in systems programming.
Be able to solve relatively simple problems requiring concurrency. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 20 - 25 hours 30 N Individual Y  Practical 2 hours each, total 10 hours 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Chun Ruan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Chun Ruan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Computer Science (COMP) Cyber Security, Major (0066) IT Support, Minor (0205) Systems Administration, Minor (0149) Systems Programming, Major (0064) Systems Security, Minor (0150)