Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3051 Creativity and Cultural Wellbeing for Communities Credit Points 10 Coordinator Karin Louise Opens in new window Description Creativity and cultural wellbeing explore how art making can foster individual, community wellbeing and global citizenship. Cultural wellbeing is broadly understood as the vitality of relationships between people, place and the freedom to participate in recreation, creative and cultural activities. In the practice-based modules students will experiment with art genres and reflect on how creative processes can facilitate embodiment, belonging, safe spaces for cultural expression, intergenerational wellbeing, relationship to place, creative agency and adaptability. Students will identify a social issue that is important to them or their community and apply design strategies to lead a creative community project. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes 1. Articulate how art making and creative practice are important in cultural meaning making using a First Nations perspective. 
2. Integrate theoretical perspectives on arts and culture through investigating the practice of creativity and wellbeing.
3. Critically analyse the role creative cultural practices play in contemporary society.
4. Reflect on personal experience and intergenerational perspectives that influence life sustaining practices for cultural wellbeing.
5. Create and exhibit artefacts that respond to the cultural histories of individual and/or community wellbeing. 
6. Document and critically review personal experiences of learning through creative processes such as digital and other technologies. Subject Content 1. Cultural meaning making in place. Story and Art in First Nations and diverse cultures
2. Safe spaces for creative expression: Boundaries, Ethics, Mindfulness
3. Cultural Creative practices: Creativity as an expression of being and belonging
4. The Cultural Wellbeing Framework and the role of intergenerational wellbeing
5. Cultural histories and creative agency: power, autonomy and voice in creative practice
6. Ecologies of wellbeing; Creative process and sustainable practices 
7. Making Community: Curating experiences for community engagement
8. Art and Activism as responses to planetary wellbeing Special Requirements Essential equipment Computer, smart mobile phone with camera, apron. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1800 words 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 15 minutes 40 N Individual N  Reflection 3 minute video + 1000 words 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Ephrat Huss, Eltje Bos (Eds.) (2019) Art in Social Work Practice. Theory and Practice: International Perspectives. Routledge. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karin Louise Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Karin Louise Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Creative Living for Cultural Wellbeing, Minor (0334) Creative and Visual Communication, Minor (0337) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Leisure for Diverse Groups, Minor (0253) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Social Ecology, Minor (0215) Teacher Education (TEAC)