Academic Handbook Current Edition EART 7002 Advanced Statistical Hydrology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301013 Coordinator Ataur Rahman Opens in new window Description This subject covers at-site flood frequency analysis, regional flood frequency analysis, trend analysis of hydrological data, linear regression analysis and multivariate statistical techniques to solve advanced hydrological problems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Hydrology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply at-site flood frequency analysis techniques to estimate design floods from recorded streamflow data.
Apply regional flood frequency analysis techniques to estimate design floods when no recorded streamflow data is available.
Apply trend analysis to rainfall and streamflow time series data to check the stationarity of the data.
Apply linear regression analysis to develop prediction models to estimate streamflow and rainfall indices.
Apply multivariate statistical techniques to hydrological problems.
Evaluate current Australian codes and software to solve statistical hydrological problems.
Critically evaluate current literature to benchmark recent problems and developments in statistical hydrology practice.
Design sustainable hydrology projects. Subject Content 1. At-site flood frequency analysis
2. Regional flood frequency analysis
3. Trend analysis of hydrological data
4. Linear regression analysis as applied to hydrological problems
5. Multivariate statistical techniques as applied to hydrological problems Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual N  Report 5,000 words 30 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Earth Sciences (EART) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)