Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7144 Technology Assisting Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102154 Coordinator Samantha Hornery Opens in new window Description Assistive technologies have the potential to meet a range of simple to complex needs for individuals with additional needs, and boost an individual’s participation, communication, learning outcomes and quality of life. As such, professionals must develop both knowledge and skill in identifying and embedding appropriate technology into the assessment, goal-setting, teaching and evaluation cycle. Emphasis will be placed on demonstrating deep knowledge of the literature and demonstrating skills in assessment and instructional practices employing technology to support learning, communication, curricular, and instructional access either in a learning or natural setting. Students will be expected to critically examine the educational function and efficacy of communication technology, assistive technology, digital and multimedia text, or educational software. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Special Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7077 - Multiliteracies and additional needs Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1714 M Teaching (Secondary), 1720 Master of Inclusive Education; 1721 Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education; 1726 Master of Education (Leadership) or 1723 Master of Education (Social Ecology). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique current research on assistive technology to support learning and promote inclusive practices in educational settings and beyond
Assess the learning environment, curriculum and a child’s participation so as to contribute to the decision-making process about which assistive technologies, programs or devices will support learning and inclusion
Evaluate the suitability of a range of assistive technologies, programs and devices to enhance equitable participation
Collaborate with families, professionals, other educators and teaching assistants to implement strategies consistently that embed appropriate assistive technologies within learning environments to promote learning and inclusion
Demonstrate leadership in implementing technologies to enhance the learner’s continuity of learning between home and inclusive settings (or across environments) and through transitions to the next learning environment Subject Content Benefits and challenges of using assistive technology.
Evaluation of a range of digital media, computers, software, applications, programs and assistive technology and devices.
Assessment and decision-making to enhance inclusive teaching and learning using assistive technologies.
Collaboration to support integrated use of technology and continuity across environments. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual N  Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education (1721) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Master of Education (1911) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)