Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1023 Western Art Music History Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102546 Coordinator Jacob Leonard Opens in new window Description This subject explores a range of musical works, styles, genres and composers from the Middle Ages to the twenty-first century. It shows how music evolved through the centuries, suggesting that stylistic changes are linked to innovative musical thinking on the one hand and conformity to established practices on the other. The subject asks how and why different genres and styles in different periods in western art music history come to the foreground while others recede into the background. Within a socio-historical context, the subject investigates the practices that produce musical innovation and considers how the various historical epochs have shaped our understanding of music. The subject includes some rudimentary music analysis and key terminologies and music vocabularies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 1005 - Music History 1 PERF 1021 - Western Art Music 1 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: name significant composers, works and musical genres associated with western art music
aurally recognise music composed in the historical epochs of the western art music
define key terms associated with western art music
analyse the structural elements of music composed in different epochs of the western art music tradition
evaluate the extent to which music composed in the different historical epochs conforms to or deviates from established practices
explain what the terms 'modernism' and 'postmodernism' mean and how they are applied to more recent western art music.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to:participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in attending the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content Styles and genres
Historical epochs from the Middle Ages to the present day
Significant composers
Technological and musical innovations
The ways in which musical styles and practices become established
Popular and folk music in different periods
The relationship of folk music to nationalism Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation (a) 15 minutes (20%); (b) 2,000 words (15%) 35 N Individual Y  Quiz (a) Two Listening Tests (15 mins each) (20%); (b) Six online quizzes (10 mins each) (15%) 35 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jacob Leonard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Musicology, Major (0025) Musicology, Minor (0025) Performing Arts (PERF)