Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3035 TV Production 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102409 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject replaced by 102834 - Screen Media: Capstone Production. Television Production 2 is a practical and vocational subject that provides students with a range of advanced skills for working in the television production and broadcast sector. The course encourages multiplatform conceptualisation and distribution of projects exploring the futures of television in online, mobile and networked environments. Students build on their knowledge and experience from TV Production 1 across a range of roles including project planning, scriptwriting and research, filming, sound recording, video editing, and post production. Working in small teams students develop and produce a TV series with professional production values for broadcast through public media contexts. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 3034 Co-requisite(s) COMM 2036 Equivalent Subjects COMM 3021 - Media Arts Workshop COMM 3038 - Video Project COMM 3033 - TV Production COMM 3050 - Screen Media Capstone Production Restrictions Students commencing mid-year may study this subject concurrently with 102407 Screen and Sound Practices 2. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge gained from completion of year 1 subject, Foundations of Media Arts and Production. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate a range of skills for working in the television production and broadcast sector.
Demonstrate a working knowledge and experience within a range of roles that exist within the sector and gain practical experience in filming, sound recording, video editing, postproduction, planning, scriptwriting and research.
Apply skills to produce television projects with professional production values.
Work in groups and individually while exploring a wide range of interconnected disciplines.
Engage with community partners and events in Greater Western Sydney and make programs with a focus on community building.
Adequately assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Treatment, Script and Distribution & Marketing Strategy. Includes Risk Management Plan.
 Treatment and
Strategy document 2000 words 20 N Individual   Audio visual Production and post production of a TV Series (Panel; Scripted; Demonstration or Live Music) 
 Audio visual Production and post production of a TV Series (Panel; Scripted; Demonstration or Live Music) 50 N Group   Reflective Report (Individual work) 1000 words approx 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM)