Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7069 Revenue Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201071 Coordinator Tenille Buttigieg Opens in new window Description This subject examines the legal basis for the Australian taxation system and its application.  It will cover taxation of income from personal exertion, business and property, as well as the taxation of fringe benefits provided in the context of employment and the goods and services tax (popularly known as the GST).  Lectures and tutorials cover the constitutional basis of taxation, income tax assessment and the concepts of income tax, allowable deductions, other federal and state taxes, taxation of business associations (partnerships, companies, trusts and primary producers), taxation accounting, administration and practice, taxation planning and avoidance. School Law Discipline Taxation Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7057 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 7031 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the key elements of the Australian Income Tax System and the Goods and Services Tax System.
Examine the relevance of tax law information in a decided taxation case, effectively and appropriately, how the case law and legislation are applied in solving tax law problems.
Apply their understanding of revenue law concepts to analysing and solving practical problems.
Use a range of research tools to locate and evaluate the quality, currency and relevance of legal information. Subject Content Introduction to the legal and policy framework in which the Australian taxation system operates.
Taxation of Remuneration
Assessable Income: Income from Business
Assessable Income: Capital Gains Tax
Allowable Deductions: General Deductions
Allowable Deductions: Specific Deductions
Entities: Taxation of Partnership Income
Entities: Taxation of Trust Income
Entities: taxation of companies
Tax Administration
Tax Avoidance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation All semester 10 N Individual N  Reflection 3 x 500 word reflections 15 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 35 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tenille Buttigieg Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Finance and Tax Law, minor (0344) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)