Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3055 Japanese 305: Advanced Reading and Writing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101971 Coordinator Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window Description Students in this subject will further develop their competency in Japanese with a focus on reading and writing at an advanced level. The subject content is organised around communicative and cultural themes on Japanese society. To expose students to authentic language use, reading materials of different genres are selected from Japanese newspapers, magazines, Japanese language corpus and the internet. Acquisition of Kanji is accelerated through reading and writing tasks. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Japanese 203 and 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes demonstrate knowledge of Japanese grammar, lexicon and Kanji characters at an advanced level;
identify different styles and genres in written Japanese;
analyse and explain instances of deliberate ellipsis and conventional omission;
write short texts in Japanese in the genres discussed with appropriate expressions;
conduct a small comparative study of written discourse in Japanese and (an)other language(s). Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 4,000 Japanese characters 35 N Individual Y  Applied Project 10-20 minutes per student 30 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam Up to 2 hours 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)