Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3008 Developing Sport Professionals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200997 Coordinator Michelle O'Shea Opens in new window Description The Sport Management Internship subject provides students with an opportunity to engage with the sport industry through a 120 hour [minimum] industry placement. Students are provided with a unique opportunity to observe sport management practitioners in action and learn in a practical "hands-on" setting. Experience in the field of study is an essential ingredient in preparing an individual for employment either during the period of study or after graduation. Students have the opportunity to apply theoretical concepts, knowledge and skills acquired in lectures and workshops in professional sport, recreation and aligned settings. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3066 - Sport Management Internship Restrictions Student must be enrolled in one of the following programs: 1818 Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Business 1819 Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business 1820 Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business 2786 Bachelor of Business 2787 Bachelor of Business (Advanced Business Leadership) 2788 Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws 2789 Bachelor of Business (Advanced Business Leadership)/Bachelor of Laws 3728 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours)/Bachelor of Business 3737 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business 3744 Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business 3745 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business 4748 Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business 6037 Diploma in Business/Bachelor of Business Assumed Knowledge An introductory level of knowledge in Sport Management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique the professional practice of sport and allied services. 
Reflect upon personal values, experiences and expectations.
Evaluate contemporary managerial practices of sport or related organisations.
Analyse the diverse departments within a sports organisation or related organisation & their engagement with stakeholders.
Communicate clearly and concisely to diverse audiences in a range of formats.
Engage in peer review, providing and receiving feedback in a responsible and constructive manner. Subject Content Sport management career readiness and employability skills development 
Professional portfolio development 
Supervised internship hours jointly supervised/facilitated by an experienced sport management practitioner and WSU academic mentor.
Professional and personal ethics in/through sport business practice
Critical reflection on self and others experiences and interpretations while completing internship hours Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Some placements may require completion of a Prohibited Persons Declaration; Criminal Record Check Clearance and Immunisation. This will be considered on a case by case basis. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract 500 words 15 N Individual N  Self-Assessment 500 words equivalency 35 N Individual N  Peer Review 500 words equivalency 25 N Group N  Portfolio 1000 words equivalency 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Michelle O'Shea Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jess Richards Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)