Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2017 Feature Writing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102061 Coordinator Asha Chand Opens in new window Description This subject takes students beyond event and reactionary reporting towards an understanding of the proactive process of exploration, interpretation and exposure in journalism. Students learn how to find, filter and file information in a dynamic and constantly changing environment. Given a lot more time to explore issues, students learn to add value to information while keeping the story current, to deadline and in the public sphere, while negotiating with the media industry to get their stories out into the public sphere. Students are encouraged to develop their unique writing styles while also focusing on social issues such as trauma, violence, mental health and wellbeing. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Journalism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 1018 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0585 - Journalism Feature Writing COMM 2023 - Magazine Journalism Assumed Knowledge News sense. An interest in telling a story. Basic journalism writing skills and keenness to develop an interest in social issues. Broad understanding of the role of journalism in society. Basic computer skills. Learning Outcomes Generate original story ideas suitable for developing into feature stories
Undertake newsgathering, research, writing and editing applicable to feature stories
Apply interviewing and writing skills appropriate to the generation of feature-length stories.
Analyse writing feature stories and the mediums for publication.
Adapt writing to various styles while writing tight to deadline.
Target a specific audience/publication.
Market stories to different publications/audiences as this will add value to student learning
Apply teamwork skills through the editing process. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 - 1,200 Words 35 N Individual Y  Professional Task 300 Words 10 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,200 - 1,500 words plus portfolio 55 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Asha Chand Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Asha Chand Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Journalism, Major (0069) Journalism, Minor (0069) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)