Academic Handbook Current Edition PROC 4001 Advanced Materials Topics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301416 Coordinator Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window Description Advancements in materials have underpinned technological development since the earliest days of human civilisation. As the challenges of the 21st Century emerge, the development of advanced materials will undoubtedly prove crucial for achieving sustainable solutions. This subject is a research-led learning experience for students whereby advanced materials researchers from WSU and beyond will deliver a series of real-world case studies on their research. Students will be challenged to assess these different material contexts and respond to hypothetical problems by performing critical reviews, in-depth analyses and presenting expert recommendations. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Materials Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically assess peer reviewed scientific literature synthesising highly technical material from multiple sources
Identify the advantages and limitations of advanced materials when applied to specified applications
Determine appropriate research designs, methodologies, and analysis that will address a research question/hypothesis effectively.
Communicate research and present recommendations in an appropriate written and oral scientific format
Work collaboratively to address technical problems Subject Content 1.History of advanced materials and impacts on society
2.The process of undertaking advanced materials research
3.Techniques for processing and characterising advanced materials
4.Advanced materials in local and global industries
5.Case Studies on specific advanced materials research topics
6.Challenges and opportunities in advanced materials
7.Guest Lecturer: Talk with industry professionals Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature review 2000 words 30 N Individual   Literature review 2000 words 30 N Individual   Proposal  2500 words (group report)
 30 N Both (Individual & Group)   Presentation 10 minutes presentation (group and individual parts) 10 N Both (Individual & Group) Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Materials Engineering, Concentration (0280) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)