Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4004 Midwifery Honours Thesis B (Full-time) Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 401442 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description Research is a necessary undertaking toward the continued development of midwifery science and practice. The aim of this subject is to both broaden and deepen Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) students' understanding of research methods and the application of knowledge and skills to conceptualise, design and conduct a research project.  The subject provides an opportunity for students, under the guidance of their supervisors to plan and implement a research project related to midwifery which results in the production of a written thesis of between 15,000 to 20,000 words in length, which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 4003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours). Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level. Learning Outcomes Investigate a midwifery related issue or problem in depth through a review of the literature
Identify a researchable question related to a midwifery issue or problem
Develop a research proposal
Obtain formal approvals for research, e.g. ethical approval, where required
Perform data collection and data analysis relevant to the research proposal
Contribute to discussions about the research process with professional colleagues
Produce a thesis of the prescribed length and format which demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 15,000- 20,000 words. 100 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) (4784) Nursing (NURS)