Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0009 Academic Skills for Arts (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700211 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description This subject is tailored to provide students in the Standard and Extended Diplomas in Arts and the Standard and Extended Bachelor of Arts (First Year Program) courses with an introduction to the Arts as a discipline area, and to the Bachelor of Arts as a degree. Its second aim is to help students develop the basic critical thinking skills necessary for study at university level, and to assist them in identifying and employing strategies to deal with many of the obstacles that make the transition to tertiary study difficult. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Language and Literature, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 0010 - Academic Skills for Arts (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of what an Arts degree is: its purpose, content and scope.
Use basic critical thinking to identify analyse and assess the merit of arguments in academic and non-academic contexts.
Identify the major challenges of academic study, and employ strategies to overcome these. Subject Content 1. What is the Arts, and what does one do with an Arts degree?
2. Critical thinking for university study
3. Academic Skills for success at university Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 750 words 35 N Individual N  Portfolio 400 words 20 N Individual N  Reflection 750 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7049) Diploma in Arts Extended - Arts (7161) Diploma in Arts Extended - Interpreting and Translation (7166) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12 (7146) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary (7187) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Primary (7144) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Secondary (7145) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (6005) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) (6019) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6021) Language and Literature (LANG)