Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7009 Environmental Forensics 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301153 Coordinator Chris Lennard Opens in new window Description The subject is designed for professionals working in environmental regulatory authorities and laboratories at the federal, state or local level. This includes but is not limited to police jurisdictions, environmental protection agencies (EPAs), coastguards, park rangers, customs and quarantine officials. The subject consists of four case studies drawn from real-world scenarios. The skills and knowledge gained from Environmental Forensics 1 will be used to produce environmental forensic reports related to the case studies. The assessment is problem-based. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 7008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3741 Master of Forensic Science, 3742 Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science or 3743 Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: To identify problems and analyse the main features of environmental forensic case studies. Subject Content Design of a uranium mine environmental monitoring program (Supervising Scientist of the Australian Government Department of the Environment and Heritage)
Assessment of a maritime oil spill event (Australian Maritime Safety Authority)
Use of spreadsheet-based plume modelling software to model groundwater contamination (US EPA, US Air Force)
Assessment of the processes acting on the distribution and concentration of a dissolved phase hydrocarbon plume (BP Australia) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam Not specified 100 N Individual N Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)