Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2031 Islam in the Modern World Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102294 Coordinator Jan Ali Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to Islam and its adherents within contemporary global context. It looks at key Muslim intellectuals from the 19th Century till the present and examines their attempts to come to terms with modernity as a Western project while addressing critical issues facing Islam. Areas for consideration include: renewal and reform; the impact of colonialism and globalisation on Muslim discourse; independent judgment (ijtihad) versus emulation (taqlid); and issues associated with civil society. Students will also explore the challenge of shaping a Muslim identity in the modern world in the context of key Muslim institutions and social movements. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe historical developments in the Muslim world and their impact on contemporary contexts.
Explain the origins, development, and diversity of Islamic thoughts on various contemporary issues.
Analyse scholarly and popular debates regarding Muslim societies.
Analyse changing relations between Islam and the West during the modern period. Subject Content 1. The thought of key Muslim intellectuals from the 19th century to the present.
2. Muslim intellectuals on/and modernity as a Western project.
3. The impact of globalisation and colonialism on Muslim discourse.
4. Independent judgement (ijtihad) versus emulation (taqlid).
5. Muslim identity in the modern world in light of key Muslim institutions and social movements.
6. Reform and Renewal. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 2 x 250 words 20 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 45 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Studies of Religion, Minor (0200)