Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7015 Digital Humanities Research Methods (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102426 Coordinator Rachel Hendery Opens in new window Description This subject investigates the methodological possibilities of digital technologies for interdisciplinary humanities and social sciences research. It covers several major digital research methods, exploring previous applications and examining their orientations and implications. Digital research methods and applications may include digitisation, online curation, visualisation, network analysis, geographical information systems, data mining and simulation. In the context of these, the subject will probe histories of technology and knowledge production, the evolution of digital texts and practices, and issues in contemporary culture such as digital design, gamification, virtual identity, and digital rights. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the range of ways digital technologies are applied in advanced interdisciplinary research contexts;
Apply the key principles of collaborative design and participation in digital projects in academic and industry settings;
Analyse the applications and influence of digital technologies on social and cultural research methodologies; and
Create a digital project based on an application of digital technologies to a contemporary research question. Subject Content 1. Introduction to subject ? The ?ecomputational turn?f in the humanities
2. Digitisation
3. Data/text mining and visualisation
4. Gaming
5. GIS and mapping
6. Network analysis, social media, metadata 7. Students present their own final project. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1000 words max 20 N Individual   Presentation 20 minutes per presentation 30 N Individual   Essay 3000 words max (or equivalent combination of digital work and written exegesis) 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)