Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2056 Writing Industries Credit Points 10 Coordinator Luke Carman Opens in new window Description Writing Industries takes a close look at the business of writing. Topics include literary cultures and economies, community activism, social media and author branding, Young Adult Literature, literary controversies and what Australian authors sell into overseas markets. Students will look closely at diverse literary organisations and festivals, and how they shape cultures and support writers. They will explore the role of editors, critics and publishers – from DIY zine-making to independent presses and large commercial ventures. Students will gain insights into building writing careers, working in the arts and publishing industries, community building and culture-making, and teaching practices of writing. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Language and Literature, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2014 - Editing and Publishing Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge Students will be expected to have undergraduate first year level reading and writing skills. Learning Outcomes Compare and analyse different modes, genres and processes of publication
Analyse the economics of writing and publishing
Recognise and discuss the changing relationships between authors, publishers, editors and readers
Critically examine the role of digital cultures in marketing authors and stimulating literary debate
Critique the role of networks of organisations within the literary industry. Subject Content Students will explore the idea that the writer is part of a larger industry which includes an ecology of booksellers, festivals, funding bodies, publishers, agents, literary prizes, critics and community organisations. Through a mix of lectures and practical tutorials students will both explore a number of case studies of the industry as well as researching and writing their own case studies. Subject content will include: An overview of the Australian publishing industry
The economics of writing and publishing 
Literary trends, issues and controversies 
The writer as change maker and literary activist
The writer and popular culture
The writer in the age of social media
The role of literary magazines, festivals and collectives Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Weeks 2-14 20 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Participation This will be assessed based on attendance and participation every week of the subject. 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts The texts cited as readings for each lecture, and available in the Writing Industries Unit Reader located in the Readings folder on vUWS Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Luke Carman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) Language and Literature (LANG)