Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7059 Radiobiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401322 Coordinator James Nol Opens in new window Description This subject provides a specialised study of the Characteristics and Properties of Radiation Chemistry, Structure of Matter, Chemical Behaviour, Ionisation and Excitation, as well as in-depth study of the effects of exposure to ionising radiation on biological systems from the cellular level to systemic effects. The topics of the subject will be focused on the biological response to irradiation which will be considered from the perspective of susceptibility versus resistance for the purposes of radiation protection in medical, occupational and environmental exposures to radioactivity. There will be specialist lectures by radiobiology and/or radiotherapy experts during the subject. School Medicine Discipline Radiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) MEDI 7058 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4767 Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI), 4768 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Imaging (MRI) or 4769 Grad Certificate in Advanced Imaging (MRI) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the characteristics of the different levels of radiofrequencies and their interaction with matter to identify the difference between ionisation and the excitation of cells
Analyse the biological effects of radiation at a cellular and systemic level to assess the risks and benefits of exposure to radiation
Analyse the differences in response for healthy and mutagenic cells and the stages of destabilising of molecular structure and cancer formation
Assess stochastic and non-stochastic effects of exposure to low level of radiation from medical, occupational and environmental exposure to radiation
Communicate the significance of the assessment to a non-specialist audience
Determine the proper radiation and risk measurement tools and unit and the illegitimacy of frequented risk assessment tools. Subject Content Fundamentals of radiofrequency physics.
Physiology of excitable and ionisable cells.
Biological effects of radiation on the human body and genome.
Stochastic and non-stochastic effects of low levels of radiation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words minimum each x 8 40 N Individual Y  Case Study 2,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Literature Review 2,500 words 25 N Group Y  Presentation 20 minutes 15 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact James Nol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Advanced Imaging (MRI) (4769) Graduate Diploma in Advanced Imaging (MRI) (exit only) (4768) Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) (4767) Medical Studies (MEDI)