Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2013 Creative Arts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102125 Coordinator Sarah Pacey Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject introduces students to theoretical models and sound pedagogical practices of using Music, Media Arts and Visual Arts in the primary classroom. Collaborative, experiential and blended learning as well as reflective practices are the key operating principles of the subject. Students will explore the theory and practice of the arts in the education process of children through practical and professional experiences. The subject provides an understanding of the importance of the art forms, both as powerful teaching and learning strategies across the primary curriculum and as creative arts in their own right in the K-2 classroom. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2008 - Creative Arts 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design, implement and evaluate lessons, in each art form, based on the Creative Arts syllabus and the relevant documents.
Explain the principles and practices of teaching, learning and assessing, Music, and the Visual Arts.
Exhibit practical skills, and broad, critical knowledge in the discrete forms of Dance, Drama, Music, Visual and Media Arts.
Apply different models of pedagogy for teaching and assessing Music, and Visual Arts.
Apply critical reflection to their own learning and practice within each of the art forms of Music, and Visual Arts.
Explain the nature and role of the creative arts in relation to current and emerging concepts and philosophies.
Identify and plan for Aboriginal perspectives embedded in the new NSW Creative Arts syllabus for the Australian Curriculum. Subject Content 1. Broad and critical knowledge and understandings of the theory, principles and practices related to Dance, Drama, Music, Media Arts and Visual Arts and in the integration of these art forms.
2. Curriculum concepts, strategies and content in Dance (performing and composing), Music (singing, playing and moving, and organising sound), and Visual Arts (2D, 3D/4D, and art history), and in the integration of these subjects across the arts and across the curriculum, including Literacy and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives.
3. Designing, making and appreciating in each of the art forms, based on the NSW Creative Arts K-6 syllabus/Australian Arts Curriculum with a focus on K-2.
4. Effective classroom management and teaching strategies for teaching and learning in the Creative Arts.
5. Planning an integrated creative arts program to include all five art forms, based on relevant literature and pedagogies within a primary classroom.
6. Range of strategies for teaching, reflecting on and assessing in the Creative Arts.
7. Workstations in the primary Creative Arts program Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)