Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3006 Ergonomics and Work Occupations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401121 Coordinator Beth Mayland Opens in new window Description The productivity role is a key aspect of adult life for most people. Occupational therapists play a major role in assisting clients who have had their productivity role affected in some way. This subject explores the importance of productivity for adults, in particular those engaged in paid employment.  The focus of this subject is the rehabilitation of the injured worker within the context of the work health and safety legislation and the WorkCover case management system. In addition, this subject will explore vocational counselling and rehabilitation for clients with psychosocial, cognitive and physical disabilities. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2006 AND
NATS 1022 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7006 - Ergonomics and Work Occupations Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). Assumed Knowledge Human anatomy, functional anatomy. Learning Outcomes Discuss the importance of the productivity role for adults ? paid and unpaid and examine the factors impacting on engagement in work for people with cognitive, psychosocial or work related injuries
Apply the principles of ergonomics to workplace assessment to client case scenarios
Describe the role of the occupational therapist in occupational health and rehabilitation in the context of work health and safety legislation and the WorkCover NSW system
Identify the issues related to vocational rehabilitation and return to work from the consumer perspective
Apply published evidence related to case management and occupational rehabilitation to solve occupational therapy problems
Discuss the impact of common occupational diseases and injuries
Apply the case management process to an injured worker or a client requiring vocational rehabilitation Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 800-1000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10-15 minutes 30 N Group N  Report 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Beth Mayland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)