Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 3012 Incubator 4: Commercial and Financial Strategy for Entrepreneurs Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description In the Bachelor of Entrepreneurship students learn the different aspects of starting a new business around a creative, innovative product or service. One key skill in being able to run a business or a startup is developing financial and commercial strategies. Students develop their knowledge and skills in this area through a more in-depth look at business models, revenue models and commercial strategies. Students apply critical thinking to evaluate models and strategies in developing a commercial strategy. The skills developed in this subject are highly valued practical business-oriented skills that can be applied in a range of businesses. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects ACCT3009 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Analyse business revenue models. 
Investigate different business models for viability. 
Present a revised commercial strategy demonstrating critical thinking and decision making.
Communicate in a professional, ethical, and inclusive manner to a range of audiences. Subject Content Commercial strategy
Market sizing
Market strategy entry
Business revenue models and pricing strategies
How to identify types of costs and driving cost efficiencies
Profits and loss statements
Statement of cash flow, AI tools and digital systems in financial and commercial design Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 20 mins 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)