Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7056 Grant Proposals and Applications Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800226 Coordinator Michael O'Connor Opens in new window Description Early career researchers engage in an exceedingly dynamic and competitive research and academic environment. They are expected to possess skills to successfully develop research projects, identify appropriate funding opportunities and communicate their knowledge by applying for research funding in line with their program of research.  In this elective subject students will develop the knowledge and skills required to draft complex grant applications - using a framework that includes research design, hypotheses, research questions, and results - while communicating information in an accurate but accessible manner.  Students will develop and refine their ideas for future research funding based on their knowledge gained across all the GCREDI subjects as well as their research studies. Students will communicate those ideas in practice through development of grant writing skills relevant to funding opportunities associated with their chosen career paths. School Graduate Research School Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 7038 AND
HUMN 7005 AND
HUMN 7026 AND
HUMN 7037 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Doctoral (HDR) program. Students must be enrolled in program 8111 - Graduate Certificate in Researcher Engagement, Development and Impact. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan for research and development within their chosen field.
Understand how team member(s) skills/attributes are needed to create a compelling proposal.
Develop, articulate and communicate a program of research in an accessible manner.
Identify funding schemes and agencies appropriate for the candidate's program of research and career progression.
Write a well-articulated grant proposal that meets agency/funding scheme requirements.
Self-manage research projects as early career researchers.
Reflect on own performance and identify own development needs.
Interpret the relationship between discipline area and research and its contribution to broader societal transformations. Subject Content 1. Articulate research needs/opportunities for a chosen field.
2. Outline a program of research to address the needs/opportunities in a field.
3. Developing an impactful but feasible research proposal with an understanding of how to build an effective and compelling application team.
4. Developing a relevant, comprehensive and realistic research budget.
5. Identifying prospective and suitable funding schemes and agencies for scholarships, fellowships, grants, etc.
6. Exploring key funding elements including assessment criteria, audience and style.
7. Organising a grant proposal in line with the requirements of the funder.
8. Project management for researchers.
9. Creating a compelling research proposal narrative by considering the strategic research initiatives of your institution and relevant stakeholders (e.g., community groups, government, industry, etc.)
10. Approaches for revising and refining grant proposals.
11. Reflecting on research impact and contribution to broader societal transformations.
12. Building and demonstrating resilience as early career researchers.
13. Reflecting on research impact and contribution to broader societal transformations. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2 reflective written  entries, 500 words each (1,000 words total) S/U Y Individual Y  Proposal 1,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Proposal 2,500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Proposal 6,000 words (1,000 words per student team member) S/U Y Group Y  Presentation 30 min (5 min per student team member) S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Michael O'Connor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Researcher Engagement, Development and Impact (8111) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)