Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2001 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401206 Coordinator Liz Flannery Opens in new window Description In Autumn 2022 this subject will be replaced by subject 401454 - Indigenous Australian Health, Wellness and Culture. This subject will specifically enable nursing and midwifery students to investigate, discuss and develop an understanding of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health, health statistics, historical and present day issues associated with poor health outcomes in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. In addition, the general concepts of cultural safety and health and illness, will be explored in terms of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander populations.  Further, the subject promotes the development of critical knowledge essential for students to understand their own values, beliefs, biases, and perceptions to become culturally sensitive and appropriately adaptable when meeting the health needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People.  A case study approach will provide the framework for students to explore and reflect on the impact of the different attitudes, institutional policies and value systems relating to the health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in Australia. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 2017 Health in a Culturally Diverse Community Assumed Knowledge Foundational knowledge related to primary health care, professional communication, behavioural and social sciences, nursing or midwifery practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual   Case Study 1,500 words 30 N Individual   Final Exam – Online 1 hour 50 MCQ's 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)