Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 3010 Animal Health and Welfare Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301456 Coordinator Mark Jones Opens in new window Description Diseases of domesticated and native Australian animals, including endocrine, metabolic and pathogenic are significant
factors influencing animal health, welfare and production. Understanding the interactions between the host animal
genes and immune system along with the environmental influences, you will develop knowledge and skills in sustainably
managing animal health and welfare. This subject will develop your knowledge of the diseases impacting animals and
methods for disease diagnosis and control. In particular, you will apply this knowledge to the relationships between
animal management and the health and welfare expectations for domesticated and wild animals. School Science Discipline Animal Husbandry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects AGRI 3008 Animal Health Ethics and Welfare Incompatible Subjects AGRI 2002 Animal Health and Welfare
AGRI 2003 Animal Health and Welfare Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes Describe the principle immune defence systems of domestic and native Australian animals.
Define and categorise types of animal diseases and causative agent(s).
Compare and contrast animal disease aetiology, transmission, diagnosis and control.
Evaluate the relationship between animal management and animal health and welfare implications Subject Content Immune systems of domestic and native Australian animals.
Pathogenic, non-pathogenic and zoonotic diseases of domestic and native Australian animals.
Aetiology, transmission, diagnosis, and control of animal diseases.
Sustainable animal health and welfare management. Special Requirements Essential equipment Outdoor attire / Lab coats, enclosed footwear for indoor labs Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4x 30 minutes 40 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 15min 15 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 15min 15 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Mark Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185)