Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 4006 Honours Project  (Medicine) Credit Points 0 Legacy Code 401172 Coordinator Phillipa Hay Opens in new window Description Students who meet prerequisite requirements are offered an opportunity in this Subject to undertake enhanced research and scholarship activities while enrolled in the Bachelor of Medicine / Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) 4641.5. A key objective is to assist students towards the independent application of knowledge and skills in the principles and methods of medical research on a specialist topic of their choice. With supervision, students will further develop their ability to critically evaluate theories and evidence in disciplines relevant to medicine, and to disseminate their work to a range of audiences. Prior to enrolment in the subject, students must have satisfactorily completed a Research Portfolio and given a 10 minute oral PowerPoint presentation summarising the research program and outcomes. The presentation is to be at a venue approved by the research supervisor and the supervisor must consider the presentation to be of a satisfactory standard. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 4002 Co-requisite(s) MEDI 4003 Restrictions Due to the GPA requirements for the Honours Award, this subject is restricted to students enrolled in 4641 MBBS who have achieved an overall program GPA ? 5.5 (combining grades from 400861 Foundations of Medicine 1, 400862 Foundations of Medicine 2, 400810 Integrated Clinical Rotations 1, 400811 Integrated Clinical Rotations 2 and 400977 Integrated Clinical Rotations 3) in order for the student to have a realistic expectation of achieving and Honours Award of ? Class II Division II. Students must be concurrently enrolled in subject 400978, Integrated Clinical Rotations 4 in Session 2H to be enrolled in the subject. Prior to enrolment in the Unit, students must have satisfactorily completed both the Seminar Presentation and Research Portfolio requirements. To obtain pre-approval, a structured research proposal, endorsed by a research supervisor, must be submitted to the School of Medicine Research and Higher Degrees Committee (RHDC) for review. The research proposal may be submitted to the RHDC any time between the completion of subject 400861, Foundations of Medicine 1 and before commencement of subject 400811, Integrated Clinical Rotations 2. Pre-approval must be obtained prior to collating evidence towards the Research Portfolio. The Research Portfolio will comprise written documentation and evidence of a pre-approved program of research, including a research supervisor endorsement stating that 200 hours was spent on the research. Assumed Knowledge MBBS Years 1 to 4 research methodology. Students will be expected to have applied knowledge and skills in designing and conducting research. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate academic writing skills required for writing peer reviewed journal publications
Independently identify and seek to address own learning needs for the planning and completion of a defined program of research
Seek, critically appraise and apply best available evidence relevant to a defined program of research
Demonstrate research rigour by systematically formulating answerable research questions, selecting and implementing appropriate study designs to generate, support or refute a testable hypothesis
Demonstrate an understanding of all aspects of the research process, including appropriate data collection and data analysis methods, and the synthesis, appraisal and dissemination of research findings
Apply ethical principles, relevant guidelines and laws to the conduct of own research Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 5000 – 8000 words, may be less if submitted in the form of an approved journal manuscript S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 10 minute PowerPoint presentation followed by Question and Answer session S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio Written documentation and evidence of completion of the pre-approved program of 200 hours of research S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Phillipa Hay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)