Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 2005 Introduction to Health Informatics (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700258 Coordinator Frank Gutierrez Opens in new window Description This introductory subject aims to give the student an insight into the key knowledge and skill set required in the emerging domain of Health Informatics. Critical topics include: The Australian healthcare system, health care improvement modelling, health information systems and management, paper-based v's electronic health records, clinical documentation and data quality, health information management, consumer information security, privacy and ethics, decision support and clinical delivery support systems, healthcare data representation and interchange standards, telehealth and ICT technologies. This will be complemented by practical exercises and assessment support sessions. Through these experiences students will gain an understanding of the application of ICT to the healthcare domain and the skills necessary to play a pivotal role in the design and delivery of healthcare systems and health information management. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Systems Analysis and Design Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects INFS 2004 - Introduction to Health Informatics Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the fundamental aspects of the Australian healthcare system and the application of ICT to healthcare
Describe the different standards for health data representation and interchange
Apply technical skills in healthcare data modelling
Explain the current status of health record data capture and storage (paper v's electronic) and the importance of data quality and clinical documentation to patient safety and quality
Describe the impact of electronic health records on health informatics and healthcare delivery
Summarise the different types of patient administration and health information systems available within various healthcare settings including Hospital, primary care and community/allied health
Describe consumer issues and professional governance matters applicable in the Health Informatics domain including data security and privacy
Identify opportunities for the use of Telehealth/Telemedicine
Describe the domain of health information management, and the foundational concepts associated with disease classification and terminologies
Describe the issues associated with indigenous cultural safety relating to health system designs, functionality and use Subject Content 1. Introduction to the Australian healthcare system
2. Review of fundamental aspects of Information and communications technologies applicable to healthcare
3. Purpose and use of health information
4. Paper based vs electronic health information
5. Consideration of the impact of Electronic health records and associated issues including privacy, security and usage
6. Types of patient administration and health information systems available within various healthcare settings including Hospital, primary care and community/allied health
7. Introduction of Healthcare data modelling methods and patient journey modelling
8. Consideration of the impact of clinical documentation and data quality on patient safety and quality
9. Review of Australian and International approaches for health data representation and interchange
10. Supporting healthcare information systems including clinical information systems, databases and decision support systems
11. Exploration of theoretical foundations in the application of Telehealth/Telemedicine
12. Consideration of Informatics professional roles and governance and consumer issues in health informatics
13. Exploration of Health informatics in research and evidence-based practice
14. Overview of health information management and its role within a healthcare setting Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Assignment 1 – Research Report
Diagrams to be included 6-8 pages
3000 words 30 N Individual   Assignment 2 – Modelling Submission
Predominantly diagrams = 1000-2000 word report. Students are required to make equal contributions to the Group Assignment.  (Failure to contribute equally to the group assignment may be reflected in a lower mark than for their team members) 6-8 pages
Diagrams + 2000 words 30 N Group   Final Examination
Written short answer test. 2 hrs 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (exit only) (7164) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Information Systems (INFS)