Academic Handbook Current Edition CHEM 1009 Introductory Chemistry (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700155 Coordinator Grant Boyd Opens in new window Description The chemical sciences underpin our understanding in the environmental, forensic, health, medical, biological and physical sciences. This subject familiarises students with the fundamental principles of chemistry and how chemistry shapes the world around us. Students will be introduced to the concepts of atomic structure, the reactivity of substances, the Periodic Table, stoichiometry, and will learn about the structure and reactivity of substances and mixtures in different chemical environments, and exposed to different forms of electromagnetic radiation. Students will explore real world problems and apply the fundamental principles of chemistry to better understand how we may shape our own future. School Science Discipline Chemical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CHEM 1008 - Introductory Chemistry Incompatible Subjects CHEM 1003 - Essential Chemistry 1 CHEM 1004 - Essential Chemsitry 1 (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge General Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Identify key principles and concepts of general, inorganic, physical and electro chemistry.
Apply key principles and concepts of chemistry to identify, explain and examine the relationships between micro and macro chemical processes and observations in a number of scientific disciplines.
Conduct experiments and examine results to illustrate selected key principles and concepts of chemistry.
Safely handle and dispose chemical substances in lab environments.
Collaborate effectively in groups on experiments.
Communicate chemistry and chemical experiments to a range of audiences using scientific language, chemistry symbols, three - dimensional structures of compounds and conventions of general chemical nomenclature correctly. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 20 minutes x 4 20 N Individual N  Log/Workbook 3 hours/week x 5  20 Y Individual Y  Participation 1 hour/week x 10 10 N Individual N  Short Answer 1 hour 20 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours and 20 mintus 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Phillip Newman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Phillip Newman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Chemical Sciences (CHEM) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in Science (exit only) (7084) Diploma in Science Extended - Medical Science (7120) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Diploma in Science Fast Track (7009) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)