Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2032 Inclusive Education Practices Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102130 Coordinator Maree Skillen Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Teacher education students develop understanding and skills that enable them to understand and assess the intellectual, emotional, social and physical needs of all children in the classroom. This subject assists teacher education students to develop appropriate skills, attitudes and methodologies to enable them to plan, implement and evaluate programs which meet the educational needs of individual children with disabilities, learning difficulties and/or behaviour disorders as well as those who are gifted and talented. This subject also explores strategies and theoretical approaches which promote and enable inclusion and effective learning within the context of National and State policy and legislation. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2011 - Inclusive Education Practices - AREP Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 - Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply theoretical understandings in special education and behaviour management to the construction of supportive and inclusive learning environments. 
Design and implement individualised programs for learning and intervention based on sound understanding of theory and research-based strategies. 
Apply theories of development, learning and behaviour to construct educational programs that meet the diverse needs of students with disabilities, learning difficulties and those who are gifted and talented. 
Plan effectively for a diverse range of learners and use a variety of learning and teaching strategies to engage learners and maximise their potential. 
Demonstrate appropriate and sensitive attitudes and practices in interactions with students with special education needs. 
Plan programs and approaches which, whilst meeting the student’s learning needs also acknowledge their culture and background. 
Utilise practical approaches for promoting positive behaviour and supporting student engagement whilst maintaining effective both ways dialogues with parents and caregivers. Subject Content Policy and legislation to support inclusion, such as the Disability Standards for Education (2005) and the Disability Discrimination Act.
Systems and services to effectively support students with diverse learning needs.
Theory, research and practice in relation to the establishment and maintenance of inclusive classrooms to meet the diverse psychological, emotional and cognitive needs of learners. 
Identification and documentation of individual behaviour and academic needs incorporating curriculumbased assessment for learning.
Design and implementation of individualised educational and behaviour management programs to meet specific individual and special needs.
Working in collaboration with families and multidisciplinary teams.
Diversity within and between families  respecting family values and beliefs; and structured behaviour management strategies and processes for inclusion. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)