Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1013 Everyday Childhoods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102665 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Description In this subject students will engage in an exploration of what it means to be a child in a postmodern world and how different theoretical approaches influence ways of understanding children’s lives. Alongside questions of how gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity, students will explore the notion of a child’s subjectivity. A child’s subjectivity is the conscious and unconscious thoughts and emotions of the child, their sense of self, their body and their way of understanding their relationship to the world. Building on this knowledge, students will also explore the four key child-environment identities of the physical child, the social child, the learning child and the natural child and by analysing a variety of scholarly and non-scholarly texts around the child’s body and behaviour will reflect on a child’s individuality and emerging identity. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1879 Bachelor of Education (Birth – 5 Years). Learning Outcomes Investigate diverse texts, images and constructions of what it means to be a child in contemporary society.
Describe the social meaning of childhood including the historical, social and political factors and how they have influenced changing views of children and childhood.
Describe how different theoretical perspectives have positioned children and childhood as a social construction.
Identify the ways in which gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity and the significance of this on everyday lived experiences.
Critically reflect on social and cultural constructions of diversity and difference in relation to children’s identities and subjectivities.
 Examine the ways in which children negotiate and construct their identities in contexts of diversity and difference.
Describe how children’s rights and responsibilities are enacted by children and adults. 
Describe how child-environment identity is connected to place, space, location and time. Subject Content Who is, and what does it mean to be a child in a postmodern world? 
Critically analysing scholarly and non-scholarly texts, images and constructions ‘about’ the child
Introduction to contemporary national and international theories and philosophies related to the child
Significance of gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion and how they are constituted through a child’s identity and everyday lived experiences
Questions of subjectivity and a child’s sense of herself, her body and her relationship to the world
Children’s negotiation of identity and difference in a globalised world
Rights and responsibilities of the child 
Child-environment identity and connections to place, space, location and time through encounters with tangible social-cultural artefacts such as toys, homes, landscapes, animals, digital technology
Reflecting on constructions of diversity and difference in education and community settings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 item multiple choice/short answer 20 N Individual   Summary 1,200 words 40 N Individual   Critical Review  1,200 words 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)