Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7025 Languages and Linguistics Special Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101297 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description This subject provides the opportunity for students in postgraduate Interpreting and Translation and Research Studies programs to undertake an independent research project. The topics for the projects are related to their needs and interests in areas such as languages, linguistics, translation and interpreting studies or teaching related issues. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Language And Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0749 - TESOL Dissertation LGYA 0754 - TESOL Internship LGYB 3439 - Languages and Linguistics Dissertation Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1640 Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies, 1687 Master of Arts (Research Studies)/PhD, 2724 Graduate Certificate in Research Studies, 1777 Master of Interpreting and Translation or 1780 Master of Arts Interpreting and Translation Studies. Assumed Knowledge The student should be familiar with research design and procedures, as taught in subjects such as 101854 Language and Linguistics Research methods or be concurrently undertaking a research method subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop and present a research project proposal;
Demonstrate understanding of the leading research in their chosen field of investigation;
Put forward an hypothesis or set of testable propositions;
Collect and analyse suitable data to test the hypothesis;
Draw inferences about the importance of the findings.
Students undertaking a research project will be able to collect and analyse suitable data to test the hypothesis.
Students undertaking a research project will be able to draw inferences about the importance of the findings. Subject Content The Internship requires:
1. Observation of classes in a range of different English language teaching settings;
2. A service learning component where student participates in many aspects of the work in TESOL organisations eg undertakes team-teaching or works as teachers aid;
3. Optional supervised TESOL practice teaching or its equivalent.
The content of this subject will vary according to the field and topic of the special project.
Content will be dictated by the individual project topic and design, and undertaken under the guidance and supervision of a full time member of staff with the appropriate academic background. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 words 15 N Individual N  Essay 5000 words 85 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777)