Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 1009 Wildlife Studies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300813 Coordinator Clarissa House Opens in new window Description This subject involves the study of basic biology, ecology, conservation and management of selected wildlife. Students will learn different management systems and research methods used in the conservation and management of wildlife. The use of wildlife as a sustainable resource will also be analysed within the context of ecological sustainable development and animal ethics. School Science Discipline Animal Husbandry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects AGRI 1008 - Introduction to Wildlife Studies Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and identify wildlife, both taxonomically and in general terms.
Define wildlife population characteristics, population growth, carrying capacity, methods of estimation and other parameters.
Explain and articulate basic concepts, definitions and terms commonly used in wildlife studies and management.
Explain the methods used to identify animals (to a genus level).
Discuss the implications of invasive animals and the environment including feral species in Australia (based on cases studies) and current research in the field.
Discuss wildlife conservation and management, including habitat management, endangered wildlife species, international conservation organisations, the roles of zoos in animal conservation and related research.
Explain the methods which are used to monitor interactions between animals, animal populations and habitats.
Apply concepts and theories in wildlife studies including various management systems and research methods used in the study of animals, both in the wild and captivity.
Describe and discuss husbandry of a selected range of animals.
Conduct basic habitat and wildlife survey techniques including field transects, quadrats, animal tracks and scat identification.
Conduct a literature search on a wildlife studies topic and communicate findings in written form observing the conventions of scientific writing. Subject Content 1. Wildlife population characteristics, population growth, carrying capacity, methods of estimation and other parameters.
2. Concepts, definitions and terms commonly used in wildlife studies and management.
3. Methods used to identify animals (to a genus level).
4. Invasive animals and the impact on the environment including feral species in Australia (based on cases studies) and current research in the field.
5. Conservation and management of exotic species at local, national and global scale, including management of habitats, endangered species, international conservation organisations and the roles of zoos in animal conservation.
6. Methods used to monitor interactions between animals, animal populations and habitats.
7. Management systems and research methods used in the study of animals, in the wild and captivity.
8. Habitat and wildlife survey techniques on campus including field transects, quadrats, animal tracks and scat identification. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 mcq, 30 min per quiz, a total of 120 minutes 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 5 slides/5 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Report 500 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Clarissa House Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)