Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 1004 Data Analysis and Storytelling Credit Points 10 Coordinator Roger Dawkins Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to the fundamentals of data analysis and data storytelling skills for the communication industries. Students will gain practical experience finding data sets, cleaning and analysing data, developing insights and communicating findings in visual, oral and written formats for various audiences in contexts including advertising, journalism and public relations. Students will use industry standard analysis and visualisation tools to effectively answer research problems and communicate the impact of data, ethically and mindfully. Skills learned are transferable, for example, to audience analysis, market research, product development and other research contexts.This subject will introduce students to the fundamentals of data analysis and data storytelling skills for the communication industries. Students will gain practical experience finding data sets, cleaning and analysing data, developing insights and communicating findings in visual, oral and written formats for various audiences in contexts including advertising, journalism and public relations. Students will use industry standard analysis and visualisation tools to effectively answer research problems and communicate the impact of data, ethically and mindfully. Skills learned are transferable, for example, to audience analysis, market research, product development and other research contexts. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects DESN 1018 - Visual Storytelling and DESN 1019 - Visual Storytelling (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Gather and clean numerical data sets from online sources using industry standard software.
Effectively communicate insights about a data-driven research problem by choosing an appropriate visualisation format and making basic informed design decisions.
Create a data-driven story, demonstrating an awareness and understanding of insight and storytelling concepts, using industry standard tools for a defined audience.
Reflect on the social and ethical implications of data analysis and visualisation in the communication industries. Subject Content Data (numerical/statistical) collection and the importation of large data sets.
Manipulation of data in spreadsheets (formatting data, cleaning data, parsing data, sorting data and creating formulas).
Analysis of data to develop insights to address research problems (in the context of advertising, journalism and public relations).
Communication of insights in visual and written formats using industry standard tools (e.g., Tableau). 
Reflections on the ethics of data analysis and storytelling. Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to a computer and the internet. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 30 minutes (practicals) or 250 words (written tasks) 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1 x data set; 1 x data visualisation; 1 x presentation (5 minutes) 30 N Group N  Applied Project 1 x data set; 1 x data-driven story of images and words 40 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Roger Dawkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Roger Dawkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Roger Dawkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1736) Bachelor of Communication / Bachelor of International Studies (1932) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Other information Technology (INFO) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)