Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7067 Leading Science in the Primary School Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102487 Coordinator Karina Mckoy Opens in new window Description The purpose of this subject is for students to engage in leadership practices and theory associated with an expert primary science teacher. Students will evaluate curriculum resources and consider strategies for integrating science with other disciplines in primary teaching contexts. Students will develop their capacity for leading science professional learning experiences and innovation to other educators. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1845 Graduate Certificate in Primary Science Education. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of planning units of work, features of positive classroom environments, and outcomes of the primary science syllabus is desirable. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate a set of curriculum resources for primary science education and its use in an authentic teaching context
Justify the integration of science outcomes across the curriculum
Analyse strategies for engaging the local community with implementation of the primary science curriculum
Defend how you have developed pedagogical content knowledge and leadership skills for teaching a selected primary science topic
Propose how action research can be used to develop professional knowledge of primary science teachers
Design a professional development session that supports colleagues in primary science with developing knowledge and skills for teaching a selected primary science topic
Articulate future professional development opportunities in primary science education Subject Content 1. Evaluating curriculum resources for primary science
2. Integrating science with other disciplines
3. Developing professional knowledge and leadership skills for teaching primary science
4. Action research in primary science
5. Leading science professional learning experiences
6. Engaging the community in primary science Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 2,000 words 50 N Individual   Presentation  20 minutes 30 N Group   Report 1,000 words 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)