Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3090 Understanding Power Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101731 Coordinator Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window Description This subject aims to explore contemporary understandings of power and its various manifestations in the modern world. Numerous themes are considered including informal and formal mechanisms of power, the uses and abuses of power, resistance, plus various examples of "powered" sites. The subject examines the relation between power, violence and the state. The subject concentrates on a few, influential theorists of power. Particular attention is paid to how power has an impact on the production of culture. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1008 - Understanding Power Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explore contemporary theories of power;
recognise ways in which theories of power can inform contemporary political ideas;
outline theories of power in Western thought;
discuss the role of power in philosophy and culture;
analyse and critique the traditional understanding of power;
evaluate how theories of power structure the thought of key-thinkers; and
apply knowledge gained in this subject to other areas of their experience. Subject Content The content consists of a close analysis of major theories of power from ancient times to the contemporary world. It explores the relation between power and knowledge, power and violence, power and the state, power and discipline, as well as the way that power informs the production of culture. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation Not Specified  5 N Individual Y  Essay 2000 words  50 N Individual Y  Portfolio Not Specified  45 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)