Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 3015 Groups and Symmetry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301376 Coordinator Roozbeh Hazrat Opens in new window Description This subject develops abstract algebraic thinking to a higher level.  The abstract concepts introduced in the subject, the theory of groups and abstract symmetry, have many applications in science and technology.  Symmetry plays a role in many different contexts:  in crystals, in visual arts, in music and in architecture, to name a few.  Analysing and exploiting the symmetries of a particular problem often is the first step towards finding a practical solution to the problem.  Group theory is the study of symmetry.  This subject develops the language of groups and techniques to understand the structure of groups. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1006 Equivalent Subjects MATH 3001 Abstract Algebra Assumed Knowledge Logic, proof techniques: direct proof, proof by division into cases, proof by contradiction, proof by induction. Learning Outcomes Apply fundamental structures in abstract algebra: groups, subgroups, and permutation groups.
Apply concepts from group theory to the study of the symmetry of objects, such as polygons.
Formulate proofs involving groups, subgroups, and permutation groups.
Communicate mathematical arguments effectively in both spoken and written format. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 3-6 pages 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Roozbeh Hazrat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Roozbeh Hazrat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Roozbeh Hazrat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Mathematics (3778) Mathematics (MATH) Mathematics, Major (0059) Mathematics, Minor (0059) Secondary Mathematics Education, Major (0350)