Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3051 Japanese 301 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101952 Coordinator Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window Description This is a Level 3 subject within the Japanese major program, intended for students who have successfully completed Japanese 202 or have acquired equivalent knowledge. It enhances students' comprehension of and ability to use new grammatical structures, expressions, interaction strategies and Kanji characters. In addition to improving the four primary language skills and ability needed for working in Japan or with Japanese people, this subject aims to advance students' knowledge of the modern Japan through the recommended texts and class discussions.  Note: This subject is not suitable for native speakers. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1583 - Languages and Grammatical Concepts 3A Japanese Assumed Knowledge Japanese 203 and 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes understand and use advanced grammatical patterns of Japanese;
identify the differences between structural and lexical options in Japanese and utilise them appropriately according to context;
communicate in spoken and written Japanese in a manner which is linguistically as well as culturally appropriate;
read and write approximately 500 Kanji characters;
demonstrate knowledge of the honorific system of the Japanese language and related cultural aspects of the Japanese society. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz up to 10 minutes weekly 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio Equivalent to approximately 4,000 Japanese characters maximum 40 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours maximum 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)