Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3004 Advanced Research Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101689 Coordinator Karen Mattock Opens in new window Description This subject advances the research methods and statistics in the prerequisite subject, Experimental Design and Analysis. It introduces students to non-experimental, correlational research design, and survey research, including questionnaire design, sampling and administration, with reference to ethics particularly related to cultural contexts and specific groups. Knowledge and skills in the construction and evaluation of psychological tests are also taught. Related correlational statistical techniques are taught, together with advanced analysis of variance, and instruction in the use of SPSS. The subject also develops skills in conducting and reporting psychological  research and provides an introduction to qualitative research. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 2006 Equivalent Subjects MATH 3002 - Advanced Survey Design and Analysis Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of experimental design, and basic quantitative analysis techniques up to and including one-way Analysis of Variance. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain non-experimental correlational research methodology, advanced experimental methodology, qualitative and survey research techniques (APAC Graduate Attributes 1.1.i, 1.1xii, 1.3).
Articulate principles of scale construction and evaluation and administration in various cultural contexts and with specific groups (APAC GA 1.1i, 1.1xi, 1.1xii, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4).
Demonstrate competence in advanced analysis techniques applicable to both experimental and non-experimental research methods (APAC GA 1.1xii, 1.3).
Demonstrate competence in writing research reports, including as part of a team (APAC GA 1.1xii, 1.3, 1.5). Subject Content 1. Overview of quantitative research methods 
2. Ethical and cultural considerations in research 
3. Surveys - scale construction, evaluation and administration 
4. Bivariate correlation and bivariate regression 
5. Multiple regression 
6. Factorial between-groups Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) 
7. Factorial mixed Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Factorial Repeated measures Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) 
8. Introducing chi-square analyses; one-way chi-square 
9. Two-way chi square 
10. Qualitative research methods; the Qualitative interview 
11. Analysing qualitative data using Thematic Analysis 
12. Mixed methods designs 
13. Summary and Review Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 3 minutes 15 N Group/Individual Y  Log/Workbook 500 words 25 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 500 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 35 N Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 2 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words (in two parts) 40 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 3 exercises 10 N Individual Y  Quiz 10 quizzes 5 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)