Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1021 Mathematics for Engineers Preliminary Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300743 Coordinator Mehdi Tavakol Opens in new window Description This subject is specifically designed for students enrolling in the Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) and Bachelor of Engineering Science degree courses, who do not have a mathematical background in differential and integral calculus.  The content of the subject consists of topics in arithmetic and algebra, trigonometry and trigonometric functions, logarithmic and exponential functions, differential and integral calculus. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects - Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4425 - Mathematical Methods A MATH 1011 - Fundamentals of Mathematics MATH 1016 - Mathematics for Engineers 1 MATH 1018 - Mathematics for Engineers 1 (WSTC) Restrictions All students entering the Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) and Bachelor of Engineering Science will be enrolled in this subject. Students from the Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) program who have sufficient background knowledge in mathematics may attempt a readiness test to allow them to move directly to Mathematics for Engineers 1 if they pass this test. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Perform arithmetic operations and manipulate algebraic symbols as required in solving mathematical problems set in an engineering context
Solve mathematical problems using trigonometry, logarithmic and exponential functions
Apply correctly the techniques of both differential and integral calculus to solve problems that may involve transcendental functions.
Communicate mathematical ideas using standard practices Subject Content 1.Arithmetic and Algebra:  Rational and irrational numbers, indices, manipulation of algebraic expressions, factorisation, linear equations and quadratic expressions, simultaneous equations. 
2.Relations and Functions:  Domain and range, linear functions, quadratic functions, roots of quadratic equations. 
3.Logarithmic and Exponential Functions: Definition and properties of exponentials, graphing exponentials, differentiation and integration of exponentials, exponential growth and decay. Definition and properties of logarithms, graphing logarithms, differentiation and integration of logarithms. 
4.Trigonometry:  Trigonometric ratios, exact ratios, Sine and Cosine rules, reciprocal ratios, angles of any magnitude. 
5.Trigonometric Functions:  Radian measure, graphing, properties of functions, differentiation, integration. 
6.Further Trigonometric Functions: Applied trigonometry, sums and differences of angles, equation solving, general solutions to trigonometric equations. 
7.Inverse Functions and Inverse Trigonometric Functions: y=logax and y=ax as inverse functions, inverse trigonometric functions, differentiation and integration of inverse functions. 
8.Differentiation:  Limits and continuity the derivative from first principles; differentiation formulae; implicit differentiation, tangents and normals to curves, stationary points, higher order derivatives, curve sketching, problems involving maxima and minima, differentiation of trigonometric functions, logarithmic and exponential functions, and  inverse trigonometric functions. 
9.Integration:  Primitive functions, definite integrals, areas between curves; integration of trigonometric functions, logarithmic and exponential functions, and inverse trigonometric functions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Twelve online quizzes will be available, with the 10 best scores taken. 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 50 minutes in duration 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 50 minutes in duration 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 50 minutes in duration. 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours in duration 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mehdi Tavakol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mehdi Tavakol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Peter Lendrum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Peter Lendrum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mehdi Tavakol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mehdi Tavakol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Peter Lendrum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Bachelor of Engineering Science (3691) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mathematics (MATH) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)