Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1044 Drawing Skills for Design Thinking Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301285 Coordinator Karen Yevenes Opens in new window Description Drawing skills can unlock and translate creative thoughts as actions, iterations, and guide collaborative dialogue in meeting common goals. In combination with Design Thinking essentials which include empathy, ideation, and experimentation, practiced drawing skills can accelerate decision-making for individuals or groups. This subject is focused on developing hand drawing skills as a tool for generating creative ideas and design solutions. Students will attain an understanding of spatial relationships between humans and objects, and natural and built environments. The emphasis is on using drawing as a method for conducting exploratory investigations, recording creative thinking processes through ideation and inspiring innovation. Students will gain confidence in communicating their creative ideas to a wide audience. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify a variety of representational techniques to communicate three dimensional forms.
Identify relationships between humans and the built environment by undertaking observational drawing activities.
Apply visual-thinking techniques as a technique for creative problem solving.
Create a portfolio of works that apply drawing principles and techniques to generate 2D compositions.
Reflect on your drawing technique and development through the use of a sketch book diary. Subject Content 1.Drawing as a tool for creative thinking
2.Observational drawing
3.Drawing tools and their use
4.Types of drawings and drawing systems
5.Ideation techniques
6.Explanatory drawings
7.Perspective technique and pictorial representation
8.Perception, viewpoints, depth, light and shadow
9.Design principles in drawing: line, shape, tone texture
10.Diagrammatic drawings
11.The human form in context of designed spaces and objects
12.Composition for communication
13.Rendering processes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project A4 Sketchbook of weekly tutorial exercises 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 15 x A3 Pages of perspective drawing exercises 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 3 x A3 Communication drawings   30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Karen Yevenes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Creative and Visual Communication, Minor (0337) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Visualisation, Minor (0083)