Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3041 Indigenous Australian Health, Wellness and Culture Credit Points 10 Coordinator Liz Flannery Opens in new window Description Indigenous Australian Health, Wellness and Culture subject will specifically enable nursing and midwifery students to investigate, discuss and develop an understanding of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health, health statistics, historical and present-day issues associated with poor health outcomes in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. The concepts of cultural safety, health and illness will be discussed in terms of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Students will explore and reflect on the impact of the different attitudes, institutional policies and value systems relating to the health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in Australia. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 1025 Person-centred Care across the lifespan Equivalent Subjects NURS 2001 - Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health
NURS 2039 - Indigenous Australian Health Wellness and Culture Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing, 4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online or 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge The concept of person-centred care as an approach that is respectful of, and responsive to, the preferences, needs, culture and values of individual people throughout the lifespan. Learning Outcomes 1. Appraise Aboriginal health as not just physical wellbeing of an individual but refers to the social, emotional, and cultural wellbeing of the whole community 2. Investigate the role of family and community that underpin the health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples 3.  Reflect on how colonisation has impacted the contemporary health situation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples 4.  Compare current demographic, health indicators and statistical trends for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples with non-Indigenous peoples in Australia 5.  Critique strategies to deliver culturally safe health care to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander clients from a strengths-based approach 6.  Appraise the role of nurses and/or midwives in achieving culturally safe health care for and with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people Subject Content 1. Examine the culture of nursing and midwifery, along with the broader health system, in terms of their impact on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health service experiences.
2. Describe the historical development of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community-controlled health services and health sector initiatives. 
3. Analyse the contemporary role of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health professionals, organisations, and communities in delivering culturally safe health care to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander clients from a strengths-based approach. a. Meaning of health and illness
b. Values, belief systems, attitudes, bias, cultural safety, and practices in the care of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
c. Definitions of culture from the perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
d. Health and status of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People
e. Social determinants of health in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
f. Cultural isolation
g. Poverty
h. Discrimination – social and institutional
i. Historical events and health care policies - relate the impact it has had on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
j. Health care policies and service provision – Bridging the gap
k. Ethical care in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander populations
l. Models, theories, and cultural care
m. NMBA Standards for Registered Nurse Practice
n. Relate the importance of culturally appropriate care and service provision for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People
o. Accesses and analyses the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 2 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 1000 words 40 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 2 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Liz Flannery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Liz Flannery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Liz Flannery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Liz Flannery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Liz Flannery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Liz Flannery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Laura Mellish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)