Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7025 Forensic Medicine II Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301134 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 7024 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3741 Master of Forensic Science, 3742 Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science or 3743 Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand the basic scientific, medical, ethical and legal principles that are relevant to the practice of forensic medicine.
Understand the essential techniques and methods used by forensic doctors and be able to discuss their validity, effectiveness and applicability within a professional setting.
Understand some of the causes and effects of human behavior and be able to relate these to issues affecting society as a whole.
Demonstrate an awareness of the value of a multi-disciplinary and integrated team approach in the forensic disciplines and utilize this awareness in the development of personal and interpersonal skills.
Develop and maintain the highest standards of professional integrity in all matters relating to the practice of forensic medicine and in the pursuit of justice.
Work towards improving the quality of forensic provision within the local medico-legal and criminal justice system.
Seek to initiate collaborative relationships with academics and other practitioners in order to contribute to research in the discipline.
Communicate sensitive information to other professional colleagues and, where necessary, be able to present evidence within a legal setting effectively and with accuracy and precision. Subject Content Module 1 Introduction to Pathology
Module 2 Pathology II
Module 3 Mass Disasters
Module 4 Physical Abuse of Children
Module 5 Child Sexual Abuse
Module 6 Sexual Offences in Adults
Module 7 Sudden Infant Death
Module 8 Forensic Archaeology and Anthropology
Module 9 Forensic Odontology
Module 10 Forensic Psychology
Module 11 Forensic Psychiatry
Module 12 Alcohol
Module 13 Drugs and Drug-related Deaths
Module 14 Forensic Service Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam Not specified 100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 1 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Uni of Florida - Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Uni of Florida - Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)