Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7009 Commercial Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200432 Coordinator John Chellew Opens in new window Description In this subject, students learn about the concepts of law, its impact on businesses, and how to apply the law to solve practical legal problems that arise in business. The subject is designed to help you identify where potential legal issues or problems can arise in business. It deals with concepts of Australian law and  commercial legal obligations that are of importance both to professional practice and to studies in later subjects. The subject topics are: Australian Legal Institutions and Sources of Law, Case Law and Doctrine of Precedent, Legislation and Statutory Interpretation, The Australian Federation and Concepts of Constitutional Law, Principles of Tortious Liability, the formation, vitiation, performance and discharge of contracts, forms of business structure, consumer transactions, consumer protection and agency. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3009 - Commercial Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program or in program 3748 Master of Information Governance. Other students wishing to take this subject as an elective need approval from the Academic program Advisor. The online offerings for this subject are only available to students enrolled in the fully online programs 2793 Master of Financial Planning and 2795 Graduate Certificate in Financial Planning. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the origin and development of law and legal institutions in Australia and their social, political and commercial context;
Apply common law and statute law to tortious, contractual, consumer and agency relationships to resolve legal issues;
Examine the various business entities and their legal responsibilities to solve practical legal problems. Subject Content 1. Sources of law in Australia including customary law.
2. The Australian legal system - case law, doctrine of precedent, legislation, statutory interpretation, legal reasoning and problem solving.
3. Tort law with a focus upon negligence.
4. Contract law.
5. Consumer law.
6. Agency law.
7. Business structures and legal responsibilities.
8. Business Ethics. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 minutes each 10 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,000 words 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 55 Y Individual Y  Participation Every class 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Nickolas James Business Law 5th ed (Pearson 2020) Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sam Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Certificate in Accounting (2790) Graduate Certificate in Financial Planning (2795) Graduate Certificate in Property Investment (2814) Graduate Diploma in Financial Planning (2794) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Law (LAWS) Master of Financial Planning (2793) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Laws (2824) Master of Professional Accounting (2689) Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) (2815) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813)