Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3017 Field Project 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300914 Coordinator Nijat Imin Opens in new window Description Field Project 2 allows the student to extend the research project undertaken as the pilot study in Field Project 1.   Note: Students enrolling in the external offering of this subject must be externally enrolled in either the Bachelor of Science (Environmental Health) or Bachelor of Natural Science (Environment and Health) degrees. All other students enrolling externally will need Subject Coordinator approval. Students who completed the Field Project 1 Subject in a previous year (i.e. are not continuing directly into this unit) will need to demonstrate that they have the data from this earlier Subject that can be used to produce an analysis and a report for their original client. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 3015 Equivalent Subjects NATS 3018 - Field Project 2 Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points.  Students enrolling in the external offering of this subject must be externally enrolled in either the Bachelor of Science (Environmental Health) or Bachelor of Natural Science (Environment and Health) degrees. All other students enrolling externally will need subject Coordinator approval. Students who completed the Field Project 1 subject in a previous year (i.e. are not continuing directly into this unit) will need to demonstrate that they have the data from this earlier subject that can be used to produce an analysis and a report for their original client. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Report on the project to the chosen client.
Review, revise and reflect on the project management milestones.
Present and analyse the results from the field project.
Evaluate their own work through application of self- assessment criteria and standards, and provide constructive feedback to others through application of peer-assessment criteria and standards.
Critically review the way the study was undertaken, and reflect on lessons learned about themselves in the role of student researcher ? identifying strengths and areas where further work may be needed.
Reflect on this study and other work as part of the university course to develop plans and tools for future study, research or employment. Subject Content 1. Data analysis
2. Report writing
3. Reflection on learning from undertaking a field-based research project for an industry client ? (Project designed in Unit Field Project 1)
4. Personal and professional development ? including development of critical/reflective abilities, the ability to receive and provide objective feedback and constructive criticism, and demonstrate a capacity to learn from such feedback. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 
6,000 – 7,000 words

 50 N Individual N  Reflection 1,500 words 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Natural Science, Major (0213) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)