Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7055 Social Science Training Placement Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102818 Coordinator Thierno Diallo Opens in new window Description This subject encompasses a three-month training placement (approximately 420 hours) which is designed to consolidate knowledge and skills in the area of contemporary humanitarian and development aid or in the overlapping arenas of international criminological issues such as trafficking, criminalisation and victimisation or other fields in the social sciences. Students will design, plan, implement and report their findings on a project or projects, during a placement with a domestic or international organisation in the community, the not-for-profit, or government sectors. Students will be required to undertake a specific, focused project or projects relevant to the host organisation's needs, as an opportunity to apply the skills, training and knowledge acquired through coursework in the Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies or the Master of International Criminology programs or other master's programs in social science related disciplines. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 7053 - Humanitarian and Development Training Placement Restrictions Students must have completed 80 credit points in the Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies, Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage or Master of International Criminology programs. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the relevant literature in a contemporary context in the social sciences.
Design a project proposal within an organisational environment.
Deploy management skills of planning and implementation for a project in a work setting.
Apply critical thinking skills in the production of a coherent and substantiated project report.
Communicate the outcomes of the project and placement experience at a professional standard to an academic audience Subject Content 1. Professional experience in the workplace.
2. Introduction to qualitative research (ethnography, observation, field work, good practices and criteria for qualitative research).
3. Planning, designing and implementing applied projects in a work setting.
4. Project proposal. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject students must have submitted a Working with Children Check Student Declaration (where relevant to the placement to be undertaken). Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 3,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 2 x Supervision reports S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Report 12,000 words 60 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)