Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1021 Japanese 102 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100086 Coordinator Atomi Ohama Opens in new window Description This is a post beginner level subject in Japanese built on the knowledge and skills developed in Japanese 101 and aims to further develop listening, speaking, reading and writing skills in elementary Japanese. Students who believe they have sufficient background in Japanese to do 102 without having done 101 should apply by e-form for a Rule Waiver, explaining their situation, and have their language level evaluated. Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Course Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1020 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate basic knowledge and skills in the areas of Japanese morphology, lexicon, syntax and phonology;
Read and write using basic kanji characters;
Demonstrate further knowledge of Japan and its culture;
Utilise the Japanese language in a variety of genres and topics;
Communicate with native and non-native speakers of Japanese on various topics using the Japanese language;
Utilise key characteristics of the Japanese language in a variety of simple genres and text types;
Apply independent learning strategies to acquire another language. Subject Content Activities and tasks aimed at further developing listening comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills at post beginner level;
Development of lexical and grammatical comprehension at post-beginner level;
An introduction to different genres and text types in Japanese;
Further studies of Japanese culture;
Further development of knowledge of Japan, its culture, and the Japanese-speaking community in Australia. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 1 hour   5 Y Individual Y  Portfolio Items (1) and (2): 2 hours (25%); (3) Oral Presentation: 5-10 minutes (10%) 35 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Atomi Ohama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Atomi Ohama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Education Studies, Minor (0129) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)