Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2011 Contemporary Issues in Aboriginal Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102121 Coordinator Zara Ruggero Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to meet the needs of teachers entering the profession who require in depth knowledge of the field which frames Australia’s Aboriginal identity. It investigates both Aboriginal historical perspectives and interactions with educational institutions and the policies which frame the delivery of Aboriginal content and resources to all students. The subject provides a contextualised framework on which many Key learning area’s perspectives and background knowledge delivery is based. The subject specifically relates to working successfully with Aboriginal children, families and communities in educational and social settings. It will examine relationships between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal societies, social indicators and also critique the impacts of current policy changes in areas such as self-determination, representation, mutual obligation and perspectives for positive, respectful educational outcomes for future generations of students. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 1006 - Issues in Aboriginal Education Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 - Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the origins, history and contemporary issues and initiatives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.
Show respect for present and past Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures.
Describe Australia's history of ‘settlement’, colonisation, invasion and the development of sustainable futures for Aboriginal peoples.
Explain the importance of teaching Aboriginal Studies and cross curriculum perspectives in the context of Australia as a contributing nation to developing a global society.
Create appropriate Aboriginal Studies teaching and learning activities for HSIE and other curriculum areas in classrooms.
Evaluate appropriate Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies teaching resources and the importance of consultation with Indigenous communities. Subject Content Social systems and kinship; significance of country, language, cultural continuum
What are the historical understandings required in order to deliver strong Aboriginal perspectives in HSIE classrooms (Topics Pre-invasion’ – kinship and social systems, significance of land, language, ‘Post Invasion’ –war, segregation, assimilation, self-determination, reconciliation, Stolen Generations, Aboriginal health, wellbeing and esteem issues, closing the GAP,  Origin theories, Native Title, Mabo, Wik, Mutual Obligation, sovereignty) 
Mutual Obligation, aspirations, sovereignty and future directions as evidence through the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous people 
What are Aboriginal people’s relationship with the History of Aboriginal education in NSW and Aboriginal Education Policies
What are the currently available on-line resources to support curriculum delivery to Aboriginal students and Aboriginal communities
What are the models and programs to promote social inclusion for Aboriginal students and Aboriginal families Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Maree Skillen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Teacher Education (TEAC)