Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7001 Advanced Social Research Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102177 Coordinator Rowena Butland Opens in new window Description Students in Advanced Social Research Methods concentrate on methods for collecting and analysing research data. The subject builds on the key research concepts established in 102175 Research in the Social Sciences, in particular research methodology. Advanced Social Research Methods provides students with an overview of research design and the methods for collecting and analysing research data within the broad spectrum of the social sciences. This includes purposes, strengths and limitations and applications to professional domains and/or discipline contexts. Students attend in-depth workshops on specific methods offered by practicing researchers to evaluate the merits of different research methods. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 7036 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically compare different research methodologies and approaches in the Social Sciences.
Demonstrate critical and strategic understanding of qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods research traditions in the social sciences.
Demonstrate depth of understanding of a range of methods of collecting and analysing research data, including their purposes, strengths and limitations.
Explicate the potential application of methods for collecting and analysing research data in relation to a research topic in a social science setting. Subject Content 1. Research Methodologies in the Social Sciences ? theories and frameworks
2. Evaluation of qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods traditions
3. Methods of collecting and analysing research data (a range of methods will be reviewed)
4. Reading and evaluating social research reports
5. Application in professional fields of social research and social research methods Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation - online discussion on guest lectures 4 x 250 word contributions
(total 1,000 words) 10 N Individual   Reflection - critical reflections on 3 methods of data collection 3 x 1,000 word reflections (3000 words total) 45 N Individual   Report - critical reflection on data analysis based on 2 of the methods discussed in assignment 2 2,000 words 45 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)