Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 3028 Expanded Performance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102856 Coordinator Brendan Smyly Opens in new window Description In small groups, students will plan, prepare, and perform a substantial artistically and technically challenging live performance project. Students’ performance practices will be expanded by integrating any thematically linked subset of software, hardware (controllers and synths), video and other multimedia, stagecraft, lighting, spatialisation, algorithms, theory, and improvisation. Students will learn how to integrate music and sound with multimedia and technology; develop their skills in digital audio software and interactive technology; gain experience of working collaboratively on a creative project; and contextualise their work within a broader cultural context. The teaching material comprises lectures and guided workshops, which are undertaken on campus. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1025 Equivalent Subjects PERF 3025 - Sound and Performance Expanded Practice PERF 3007 - Expanded Music Performance PERF 3027 - Interactive Electronic Media and Performance Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify strategies for integrating live musical performance with technology (software and hardware), multimedia, and interaction.
Apply knowledge of music, video, and interactive software and technology and/or theatrical elements to develop a creative performance.
Design and develop a thematically coherent and creative live performance.
Participate in a collaborative creative process.
Relate their creative work to a broader cultural context.
Critically evaluate decisions and procedures used for the development of multifaceted creative projects. Subject Content Overview of historical and contemporary expanded and multimedia performances, artists, and cultural context.
Integrating live musical performance with music technology, multi-media, and/or dramatic elements.
Using various extra-musical elements to enhance a musical performance: Computers, software and hardware, costume, lighting, video, enhanced audio systems etc.
Exploring the communicative possibilities of performance through stagecraft, acoustic treatment and/or visuals.
Developing cohesive performances that expand on the performer's existing skills, enhancing communicative and artistic processes. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 -15 minutes 40 N Group/Individual N  Presentation 15 - 20 minutes 40 N Group/Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Brendan Smyly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Music Performance Studies, Minor (0024) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music Performance, Minor (0023) Music Production, Minor (0079) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF) Sound Production, Minor (0242)