Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7103 Professional Experience 3 - 5 Years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102110 Coordinator Denise Fraser Opens in new window Description This subject incorporates theoretical aspects of teaching with a compulsory 30 day placement with children aged 3-5 years, to provide students with opportunities to reflect on their teaching skills and build capacity as emerging educational leaders. In this capstone early childhood professional experience, students build their professional capacity to take the day to day responsibility for the learning, development, health and wellbeing of a group of children, in collaboration with supervising staff. Students will work collegially with staff and families to design, implement and evaluate an inclusive curriculum that engages children with investigative and critical thinking that connects to children’s social worlds. The subject requires students to apply the principles, practices and outcomes of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years’ Learning Framework for Australia together with understanding of curriculum content (in the areas of Language, Literacy and Communication, Mathematics, Science and Technology, Creative Arts, Human Society and Physical Development, Health and Wellbeing). Students will complete an early childhood focused Teaching Performance Assessment in this subject. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7104 Co-requisite(s) TEAC 7087 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7035 - Early Childhood Professional Experience 2 TEAC 2051 - Professional Portfolio Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Engage in ethical and reflective practice for professional learning.
Assess children’s play, development, learning, dispositions, relationships and backgrounds to plan practice.
Apply knowledge and understanding of research about children’s development and learning to inform practice.
Evaluate interest-based experiences and projects that extend on children’s strengths and interests, support children’s learning needs, foster relationships and support partnerships with children’s families.
Apply curriculum approaches and pedagogies that are contextually responsive and promote children’s investigation, problem-solving, critical thinking and the development of deep knowledge.
Apply the principles, practices and learning outcomes of The Early Years Learning Framework in the areas of science and technology, mathematics, human society, physical education health and wellbeing, creative arts and literacy to engage in interactions with children that extend their learning.
Design resources that encourage children to use a range of media and technologies to investigate their ideas and values and represent their thinking.
Demonstrate pedagogical leadership by collaboratively planning, implementing and evaluating a total learning environment that is inclusive and engaging for diverse learners, including learners from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander backgrounds which includes a range of grouping strategies, promotes positive interactions, extends learning and strengthens relationships.
Demonstrate the oral and written literacies expected of a graduate teacher. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. Essential equipment Access to the internet. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days placement S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 15 minutes S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Denise Fraser Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Denise Fraser Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)