Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 7011 Music Therapy Skills & Practice C Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102802 Coordinator Allison Fuller Opens in new window Description From 2023, this subject will be replaced by PERF 6005 Music Therapy Skills & Practice C. This subject focuses on the development of therapeutic music skills to support the delivery of music therapy to individual and group participants ranging in age from infants to the elderly. Students learn, practice and demonstrate a diverse range of skill sets that can be applied within their SiMPrac field work or Practicum Placement as appropriate. This subject utilises active learning methods within a lectorial format and addresses focus areas including: methods; goals; technology; culture and improvisation. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 7006 - Music Therapy Skills 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled n 1650 - Master of Creative Music Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Employ critical thinking strategies in applying music therapy practical skills to in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings with a focus on: skills, repertoire, and improvisation frameworks for guitar, piano, voice, plus more!
Explain the application of the Australian Music Therapy Association (AMTA) Standards of Practice and apply them to in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings for individual and group music therapy participants.
Describe and reflect on their experiences and learnings from SiMPrac (1st Year) or RMT Placement (2nd Year).
Compose original songs/musical pieces that can be applied to music therapy for individual and group participants within in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings.
Apply knowledge of: the Nordoff-Robbins music therapy approach, Electronic music technologies (EMTs); Culture-centred practice; and Creative-arts therapy within in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings.
Demonstrate a novice (1st Year) or competent (2nd Year) level of music therapy skills within the following methods: Improvisational; Re-Creative; Compositional; and Receptive. Subject Content 1st Year Students: Simulated Music Therapy Practicum (SiMPrac): 160 hours of online modules & activities; weekly small group supervision with an RMT; repertoire portfolio development; and field work.
2nd Year Students: Music Therapy Placement with a Registered Music Therapist: 160 hours of placement in a clinical, educational, community or other setting as considered appropriate.
Therapeutic Music Skills: Skills, repertoire and improvisation frameworks for guitar, piano, voice, plus more!
Songwriting/Composition Focus: Composing original songs/music for individuals and/or groups within music therapy practice.
Methods Focus: Applications music therapy approaches across the lifespan including creative arts therapy.
Goals Focus: Music therapy for addressing the development of either communication, physical, social/emotional or cognitive goals.
Technology Focus: The use of various forms of technology within music therapy practice.
Culture Focus: Addressing cultural needs within music therapy practice with a focus on one culture.
Improvisation Focus: Free, guided and structured improvisation frameworks, for individual and group applications. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance: 1st Year: SiMPrac and 2nd Year: RMT Placement 160 hours  40 Y Individual   Applied Project: Song/music composition written & recorded for an individual or group from placement with written description Between 16 to 32 bars, and 2 to 4 minute recording, and 500 words  30 N Individual   Practical: Demonstration of music therapy knowledge/skills   30 N Individual   Attendance: Weekly attendance at scheduled learning activities  Attendance at a minimum of 11 lectorials across the semester  S/U Y Individual Structures that include subject Master of Creative Music Therapy (1650) Performing Arts (PERF)