Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 1005 Policing Practices (Block) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description This subject concentrates on the implications for police practice of the legislative framework, police responsibilities including procedures, practices and methods. The content will focus on police decision-making and discretion, and the meaning and practice of police powers. The approach necessary for working with diverse communities is described and analysed, as are associated communication practices. Concepts such as the appropriate use of force, the appropriate use of personal information and the characteristics of ethical policing practice.  By comparison, examples are drawn from Australian state and federal policing, and international contexts. School Social Sciences Discipline Police Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects JUST 1003 Policing Practices
JUST 2003 Contemporary Policing
JUST 2004 Contemporary Policing (UWSC)
JUST 1004 Policing Practices (UWSC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 7179 – Undergraduate Certificate in Cybersecurity, Cybercrime and Behaviour. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to Describe the practice implications of police powers in NSW and elsewhere. 
Demonstrate reflective and practical knowledge of police responsibilities in a range of incidents. 
Articulate an appropriate understanding of caution, arrest, use of force, custody and offender management. 
Articulate an appropriate understanding of Duty of Care towards victims and offenders. 
Explain the practice implications of working with diverse communities.   
Explain the need for clear communication between the police and the policed. Subject Content Critical issues in contemporary policing. 
Policing around the world. 
Governance, media and policing. 
Legislation and the limits of contemporary policing. 
Ethics and cultures of policing. 
Communications in policing. 
Community engagement and customer service. 
Caution, arrest and use of force. 
Custody and offender management. 
Duty of Care to victims and offenders. 
Future of policing in Australia. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 300 words 10 N Individual N  Case Study 	1000 words 30 N Individual N  Proposal 	1200 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 	10 minutes 20 N Group N Teaching Periods Block B Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block E Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Undergraduate Certificate in Cybersecurity, Cybercrime and Behaviour (7179)