Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7164 Literacy Connections 2: Communicating, Reading and Writing Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to extend students’ understanding of teaching reading, writing, speaking and listening in the upper primary years of school. Students will apply their knowledge of the relevant curriculum documents to assess and plan for children in Stages 2 and 3. Students will explore how a range of texts are applied to teach reading comprehension at the literal, inferential and evaluative levels and provide a context for children’s writing for a range of purposes. Opportunities to integrate literacy across the curriculum, drawing on multimodal approaches will be explored. A critical understanding of a range of pedagogical and assessment practices will inform teaching and learning for children with diverse languages, cultures and abilities. Students will apply this knowledge to develop and evaluate literacy lessons. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7071 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7090 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years) or 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary). Learning Outcomes Distinguish the purpose, structure and use of visuals and language devices in a range of texts.  
Evaluate pedagogical teaching practices and strategies for teaching reading comprehension, writing, speaking and listening, including differentiation strategies.  
Apply responsive teaching practices to teach English to diverse learners including, learners who speak English as an Additional Language, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders and children with disabilities or special educational needs. 
Identify a range of assessment tools and their purposes. 
Analyse students’ assessment data using relevant curriculum documents.  
Integrate literacy learning and teaching across the curriculum drawing on multimodal approaches. 
Use student assessment data, relevant curriculum documents and English specific content knowledge to plan lessons that extend comprehension and writing and use effective pedagogical practices. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 6 responses 10 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,500 words and 5 minute video presentation 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jaydene Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Teacher Education (TEAC)