Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1041 Screen Media Fundamentals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102826 Coordinator Vincent Tay Opens in new window Description Creating compelling video content requires more than just knowing how to use a camera or edit a video. In this hands-on, practical subject, you will develop an appreciation of different tools and techniques, and enhance your ability to be able to create more powerful moving visuals: from researching and planning ideas, composing and framing compelling images, recording, enhancing sound, and editing. You’ll have the opportunity to create a range of short content using accessible media, and publish your work online. No prior skills required. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2035 - Screen and Sound Practices 1 Incompatible Subjects - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge in the analysis and creation of short screen media works.
Demonstrate basic planning and narrative strategies in relation to short factual content.
Demonstrate fundamental knowledge and technical skills in camera, sound recording, editing and sound postproduction.
Understand reflective practice.
Create and publish media content for online platforms.
Assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Concepts, techniques and practices in screen media production and factual content production
Technical and craft skills in camera, sound recording, editing and postproduction sound
Basic online content and publishing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual Y  Applied Project No longer than 3 minutes in total  35 N Group/Individual Y  Applied Project No longer than 3 minutes in total  35 N Group/Individual Y  Reflection 500 words or equivalent 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vincent Tay Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Creative and Visual Communication, Minor (0337) Screen Media Design, Minor (0204) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268)