Academic Handbook Current Edition CEDS 7003 Research Methods in Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102824 Coordinator Nada Labib Opens in new window Description Research Methods in Education provides students with an introduction to educational research methods and data analysis. It enables students to develop their understanding of how research evidence can be used to improve educational practice and policy, and the challenges associated with the use of research evidence in education. The subject will develop students' knowledge and skills to design research instruments and analyse research data. This subject is designed to provide students with foundational research skills for their application to research and professional projects. School Education Discipline Education Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in 1911 Master of Education or 2761 Master of Business Administration. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the role of research evidence in improving practice and policy in educational contexts.
Appraise theoretical paradigms and their influence on research design and methods.
Explain how a range of research designs (qualitative, quantitative and/ or mixed methods) can be applied to address educational research questions.
Explore qualitative and quantitative approaches to analyse educational data.
Explore the design of research instruments that are used to collect data in an educational context.
Evaluate the ethical frameworks impacting on research in education. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 15 minutes 35 N Individual Y  Annotated Bibliography 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words 15 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Erin Mackenzie Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Nada Labib Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact John Ley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Curriculum and Ed. Studies (CEDS) Educational Leadership, Testamur Major (T134) Master of Education (1911)