Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3045 Managing Operations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200865 Coordinator Hilal Hurriyet Opens in new window Description Managing Operations is a comprehensive subject that focuses on the importance of operations in creating competitiveness and dynamic capabilities for individual organisations and organisations connected through supply chains and logistics processes within a global context. The subject is designed for students interested in enhancing their knowledge and skills in designing and improving critical operational processes used by organisations to provide products and services to customers. It encompasses internal and external operations for manufacturing and service organisations; their strategic choices; and tactical and operational decision-making processes for the management of critical and extended resources. The latest qualitative and quantitative tools and techniques, online business simulations and international case studies are used to practise problem solving processes to address challenges of a global nature in the business world. School Business Discipline Purchasing, Warehousing and Distribution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3013 Global Operations and Logistics Management Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have gained an introductory level of knowledge in operations and supply chain management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify major competitive priorities of operations and their connection to business and operations strategies.
Critically evaluate the role and scope of operations management within a global business environment context.
Analyse the key features of operations and logistics management including strategic and tactical operations decisions.
Evaluate operational problems and propose sustainable solutions by applying qualitative and quantitative techniques and models.
Collaborate with group to manage and sustain operations to meet business challenges. Subject Content 1. Operations management, its role and relevance to competitiveness and supply chain framework.
2. Business and operations strategy, core competencies, structural and infrastructural decisions and productivity management.
3. Demand management and new product and service design.
4. Process design and management and layout.
5. Quality management and control.
6. Inventory management and control.
7. Capacity and constraints management and scheduling.
8. Supply chain and logistics management.
9. Project management.
10. Lean systems. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1500 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words 25 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours and 30 minutes 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Hilal Hurriyet Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Hilal Hurriyet Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Hilal Hurriyet Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Hilal Hurriyet Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Management, Testamur Major (T043) Organisations and Work, Major (0026)