Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 0003 Programming Design (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 5 Legacy Code 700047 Coordinator Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the principles required for the effective design and development of solutions to computer program related problems.  This subject has been developed to enhance a student's practical ability as well as build a solid theoretical foundation for further study in programming. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0451 - Programming Design (UWSCDip) COMP 0004 - Programming Design (UWSC) Assumed Knowledge The ability to create a mathematical expression for a given problem scenario.  This would require knowledge of basic arithmetic, percentages and simple statistical measures. Learning Outcomes Describe what is meant by the terms programming and structured programming.
Describe the steps involved in the program development process in solving problems.
Illustrate the steps involved in program development using IPO charts.
Explain what is meant by the term programming language.
Design an algorithm that applies structured programming techniques to solve a given problem.
Develop a set of input test data and deskcheck pseudocode.
Describe what is meant by modularisation, module cohesion and coupling and parameter passing with different aspects of cohesion and coupling.
Design and implement a program solution using an Integrated Development Environment. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project  15 N Individual N  Quiz  20 N Individual N  Applied Project  15 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N  Report  40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7163) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (exit only) (7164) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Information Systems (INFS)