Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2004 Exercise Bioenergetics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400883 Coordinator Shona Papalia Opens in new window Description This subject investigates exercise metabolism and related genomics and proteomics in an integrated fashion. Covering: energy pathways; metabolic control; metabolism, oxygen consumption and respiratory quotient relationships; metabolic responses to acute and chronic exercise;  pathway contributions to exercise; metabolic limitations to exercise; metabolic contributions to fatigue; metabolic acidosis, cellular and systemic implications of metabolic thresholds, conditions that can alter cellular metabolism. Whilst skeletal muscle metabolism is the primary focus, liver and adipose tissue metabolism are also considered as are anabolic pathways.  Students will be exposed to basic biochemical assays of interest to the exercise physiologist. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1009 AND
NATS 1010 AND
SPRT 1001 AND
HLTH 1001 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 2003 - Bioenergetics of Exercise Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4658 Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science). Assumed Knowledge The knowledge and skills covered in the pre-requisite subjects. In addition students are expected to have a mathematical ability equal to a passing level in the BOSTES (NSW) numeracy test. See http://www.boardofstudies.nsw.edu.au/rosa/literacy-and-numeracy-tests.html . Students whose mathematical ability is not at this level or who have not used such mathematics recently are encouraged to seek assistance early through the Mathematics Educational resource Hub (MESH). http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/mesh/mesh Learning Outcomes Interpret the information in chemical equations, formulae, structures, as well as understand the general concepts involved in biological applications of thermodynamics, genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
Explain the mechanism of action of enzymes and factors that affect rate of enzyme-controlled reactions.
Describe the structure and functions of DNA and RNA, the processes of replication, translation and transcription along with how rates of these to processes can be altered by exercise.
Detail the major concepts of aerobic, alactic and lactic energy production including regulation and integration of the metabolic pathways, as well as understand the different terminology for these energy systems.
Detail the factors that influence the contribution of carbohydrate, lipid and protein metabolism to the supply of energy for a range of exercise and conditions.
Explain the relationships between metabolism, oxygen consumption and respiratory quotient, metabolic rate, blood lactate, pH and metabolic thresholds.
Explain the biochemistry of metabolic acidosis and its implication for exercise performance.
Proficiently use basic biochemical testing equipment and understand the basis for protocol, objectivity, reliability and validity.
Explain the relevance of and interpret an array of biochemical assays used as part of integrated exercise and fitness testing and physiological research.
Calibrate equipment used in exercise biochemistry including gas analysers, blood lactate analysers. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Varied - From 5 to 20 minutes each S/U Y Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes maximum allowed time each. 30 N Individual Y  Report minimum 3-4 pages, 10 point Arial font single spaced 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 3 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Shona Papalia Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science) (4658) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Other Health (HLTH) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)