Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1018 Psychology: Human Behaviour Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101184 Coordinator David Arness Opens in new window Description Psychology is a field of scientific inquiry that uses a set of scientific techniques and methods to explain and understand the causes of behaviour. As a profession, psychology applies its knowledge to practical problems in human behaviour. This subject covers a range of topics in psychology at an introductory level including: the history of psychology, intelligence, social psychology, developmental psychology, Australian Indigenous and cross-cultural psychology, personality, and abnormal psychology. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Navigate information resources, to collect credible material. 2. Distinguish features of the major theoretical perspectives in psychology. 3. Describe scientific techniques and methods used in psychology research. 4. Identify key elements of Indigenous psychology in Australia. 5. Summarise key topics of psychology adhering to the current APA (American Psychological Association) Publication Guidelines. Subject Content 1. Introduction to the major perspectives in psychology and critical thinking/argument in psychology 
2. Individual Differences and assessment 
3. Intelligence and Personality 
4. Developmental Psychology 
5. Social and Cultural Psychology 
6. Abnormal Psychology 
7. Australian Indigenous and cross-cultural psychology. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 1500 words (500 words for each Topic Summary) 40 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 20 multiple choice questions 5 N Individual Y  Participation 5 hours of research participation 5 N Individual N  Quiz 20 multiple choice questions 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 30 N Individual Y WSU Online Trimesters The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,500 words 35 N Individual Y  Quiz 20 questions 0 Y Individual Y  Participation Research participation or alternative task 5 N Individual N  Quiz Four quizzes of 20 questions 30 N Individual N  Final Exam One hour 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact David Arness Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact David Arness Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Arness Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact David Arness Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133) Responsible Design and Sustainability, Minor (0087)