Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3018 Children's Literature: Image and Text Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101626 Coordinator Nicola Burke Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the interrelationships between image and text in children's literature. The subject examines both picture books and other image-based children's texts, including electronic texts and graphic novels. The subject will examine children's texts as cultural artefacts, theories of visual literacy and how image and text combine to create meaning. Students will have the opportunity to create their own picture book for their final project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify children's texts as cultural artefacts produced in and through discourse that arise in particular social, historical contexts
Employ the concept of 'visual literacy' to explore how children/young people read and understand 'visual' texts
Identify and engage in key debates around children, childhood and children's literature
Compare and evaluate different perspectives for analysing how images and text combine to create meaning
Undertake close critical analysis of the visual aspects of children's texts and of the relationships between images and written text
Apply the knowledge gained in the subject to design their own picture books Subject Content Children, childhood and children's literature
The changing role of the visual in children's literature
History of the use of images in children's texts
The social, cultural and political contexts of children's literature
Ideology and the image
Theories of visual literacy and research on how children read images
The interrelationship of images and text in children's literature
Perspectives and approaches for studying the visual aspects of children's literature
Contemporary visual texts - e.g. picture books, electronic texts, graphic novels, multimodal texts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1,000 words 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Applied Project A variety of short tasks commenced in class, generally completed out of class and submitted for feedback. 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Childhood Studies, Major (0330) Childhood Studies, Minor (0330) Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG)