Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 7007 Clinical Application of Classical Chinese Herbal Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401130 Coordinator Yu-Ting Sun Opens in new window Description This subject presents the origin, development and features of classical Chinese herbal medicine (Jing Fang), and reveals their pharmacological and clinical outcomes based on the latest clinical observation and research. This subject will appeal to practitioners seeking to extend and deepen their knowledge and clinical skills with Chinese herbs and to students embarking on research in this area. The classical texts contain deep insights on Chinese herbs and formulae for a range of conditions. Selective herbal formulae from the Treatise on Cold Pathogenic Diseases (Shanghan Lun) and the Synopsis of Golden Chamber (Jingui Yaolue) are explored in depth to demonstrate the clinical applications. School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4716 Master of Chinese Medicine or 4675 Master of Health Science (Traditional Chinese Medicine) and/or 4678 Master of Health Science (Acupuncture). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the origin and development of classic Chinese herbal medicine (CCHM)
Critically analyse the principal features and strategic approaches of CCHM
Demonstrate comprehensive skills in applying commonly-used CCHM in contemporary practice
Relate the pharmacology and toxicology of CCHM to its clinical outcomes
Identify and critically evaluate the strengths and limitations of CCHM Subject Content 1. Origin and development of Classics of Chinese medicine
a. Treatise on Cold Pathogenic Diseases (Shanghan Lun)
b. Synopsis of Golden Chamber (Jingui Yaolue)
c. Major academic schools of Chinese medicine
2. Feature and methodology of Classic Chinese herbal medicine (CCHM)
a. The herbal formula design and strategy
b. CCHM and pattern diagnosis
c. CCHM modifications
d. Dosage and administration of CCHM
3. Review of pharmacological and toxicological research of CCHM
4. Clinical applications of the selected formulae from the Classics
a. The exterior expelling formulae
b. Heat clearing formulae
c. Purgative formulae
d. Harmonising formulae
e. Qi and blood moving formulae
f. Damp and phlegm eliminating formulae
g. Internal warming formulae
h. Tonic formulae
i. Others
5. Strengths and limitations of CCHM Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Peer Review Minimum of 6 online posts with substantial content to fellow students in relation to online discussion topics 20 N Individual Y  Short Answer 20 minutes at each workshop 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Shengxi (George) Zhang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Complementary Therapies (CMPL) Graduate Certificate in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4718) Graduate Diploma in Chinese Medicine (exit only) (4717) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795)