Academic Handbook Current Edition GEDU 1001 Introduction to University Life (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to university culture and life, and explores a range of skills, attributes and behaviours that will gear students for success in their first year of tertiary study. A range of topics will be covered to facilitate increased confidence in students as they embark upon their university journey, as well as enhance students’ capacities to engaging critically and actively in their chosen field of study. This subject will equip students with a range of academic study skills, research techniques and multi-literacies, and support students to develop their own individualised learning model, personal learning objectives and academic capacities. Academic integrity is further positioned as a critical component of university life and this subject will prepare students to engage effectively in their future professional fields and as active citizens. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Reflect on your capabilities and personal learning objectives in relation to your field of interest.  
Explain what it means to think critically and act with integrity at university & professional/ broader world view context.  
Apply appropriate multiple literacies, to understand academic and professional communication common in your chosen field.  
Demonstrate competency in a form of communication in your chosen field.  
Work effectively in a small group learning environment. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 2 x 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 300 words 20 N Individual N  Portfolio 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Interview 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn Block 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) General Education Programs (GEDU)