Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 2001 Australian Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101923 Coordinator Karen De Perthuis Opens in new window Description This subject continues the focus on academic and visual literacies for visual communication designers initiated in level one subjects. Students will investigate the Australian visual communication design profession, largely through the documentation of selected output and established methods across industry sectors producing graphic, photographic, illustrative, typographic, broadcast, interactive and online design. Lectures and selected case studies will outline professional scenarios and support the student in learning about the design industry's organisation and methods. Assessment tasks are designed to develop research and writing skills through the evaluation of professional resources and publications. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate the Australian visual communication design profession and methods of practice.
Review professional and academic publications and resources about Australian design.
Evaluate examples of professional profiles and case studies.
Identify established approaches to design thinking and methods in industry practice.
Develop investigative questions about professional practice and methods in response to existing documentation. Subject Content - industry sectors, professional resources, trade publications, associations, industry body websites, selected professional profiles and case studies
- Established design approaches and methods of Visual production and analysis in design.
- instruction on evaluation and writing for assessment tasks Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 750 words + images 30 N Individual Y  Report 1250 + images 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project Not applicable 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Karen De Perthuis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6013) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)