Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2039 Pathophysiology 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401409 Coordinator Zoran Pletikosa Opens in new window Description From 2020 this subject replaces 400267 - Pathophysiology. This subject extends the scope of topics explored in Pathophysiology 1 and is designed to equip students enrolled in health science courses of the School with detailed knowledge of pathophysiological processes evident in a number of key human diseases that are vocationally relevant to these students. Problem-based learning methods will be adopted in the tutorial component of this subject to help students develop crucial problem solving skills. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 2038 - Pathophysiology 1 Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explain pathophysiological processes underlying disease;
apply knowledge of pathophysiological concepts to a range of case studies;
identify and discuss pathophysiological manifestations of disease states;
apply problem solving skills in the analysis of case studies;
relate clinical and laboratory diagnostic findings to pathophysiological processes;
hypothesise likely outcomes of disease processes;
explain the basis for common therapeutic interventions. Subject Content 1. Gastrointestinal system disorders
2. Endocrine system disorders
3. Urologic system disorders
4. Female reproductive system disorders
5. Integumentary system disorders
6. Immunologic system disorders
7. Haematologic system disorders Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 25 minutes 20 N Group N  Case Study 3,500 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Zoran Pletikosa Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine (4710) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)