Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2026 New Media Contexts (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700084 Coordinator Peta Downes Opens in new window Description The convergences and diversifications in the communications media industries of the past two decades have completely altered the environment within which they operate for producers and consumers alike. Issues about digitalisation, convergence, globalisation, the network society and communications media governance require a complete reconceptualisation of the media in order to be able to understand the impact of these changes upon professional practices and consumer habits. This subject will introduce students to international perspectives on issues in the new media contexts, and an appreciation of some of the social and cultural implications. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2025 - New Media Contexts Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of media and communications studies. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Unit, students will be able to:
identify, analyse and contextualise broad patterns of change in communications media;
analyse specific new media developments in public, commercial and community communications and media organizations;
examine and report on changes in consumer uses of media;
apply critical, reflective, and creative skills to make informed decisions in professional or applied communications contexts;
identify practices in media that will enhance their careers in the communications and media industries;
integrate theoretical and practical knowledge of the media and communications industries to analyse and solve problems;
demonstrate proficiency in a range of communication skills, social interaction, information research and assembly to solve problems, and skills in using technologies. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Tutorial Presentation 7-8 minutes 25 N Individual   New Media Review 750 words 30 N Individual   Investigative Report 2000 words 45 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM)