Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3010 Healthcare Data Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300955 Coordinator Yu Fang Opens in new window Description This subject extends the student's knowledge of Health Informatics by introducing concepts relating to electronic communications within the health industry. It exposes students to a variety of environments used to create, store, transfer and deliver healthcare data. Areas include minimum data sets, data linkage, messaging concepts/standards, terminologies, healthcare evaluation, electronic health records and related standards, security, privacy and trust, medico legal, epidemiology and population health together with TeleHealth/ TeleMedicine approaches, methodologies, tools and techniques. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFS 2004 Equivalent Subjects INFS 3019 - e-Health Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the use of minimum data sets in LHD (local health district), State and National reporting and the importance of data linkage.
Evaluate the impact of Security, Privacy, Trust, Medico-Legal aspects and Ethics related to health data.
Analyse messaging concepts and standards and how it affects the interoperability between EMR systems.
Interpret the use of clinical terminology and classification systems in health.
Characterise the concepts of epidemiology and population health in relation to data capture, analysis and research
Evaluate the purpose of healthcare evaluation in relation to accreditation/certification standards.
Critically evaluate and articulate purpose of electronic medical record (EMR) systems and functional e-Health applications. Subject Content 1. Electronic Medical Record (EMR) systems and standards
2. Health data, interoperability and messaging concepts/standards
3. Minimum health data sets and mandatory reporting
4. Clinical terminology and classification systems
5. Data linkage and special data types
6. Consideration of the impact of Security, Privacy and Trust for EMR
7. Medico Legal and Ethics related to health data
8. Exploration and application of approaches, methodologies, tools and techniques to support the design and development of e-Health applications
9. Population health
10. Health data mining and big data
11. Approaches to the evaluation of health care at a national, organisational and individual level with a view to improving the quality of health care through practice guidelines, program evaluation, clinical indicators and consumer satisfaction surveys Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Four entries: 
800 - 1,000 words per entry 40 N Individual Y  Quiz Three quizzes: 40 minutes each 30 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Heidi Bjering Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Heidi Bjering Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anupama Ginige Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Health Informatics, Minor (0037) Health Informatics, Testamur Major (T007) Information Systems (INFS)