Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2023 Advanced Engineering Physics 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301351 Coordinator Ali Hellany Opens in new window Description This subject will be offered at Engineering Innovation Hub - Hassall St, Parramatta campus.  The aim of the subject is to introduce students to topics such as electricity, magnetism, induction and semiconductivity, and to equip them with mathematical approaches for solving problems in these areas. Content in this subject will be delivered via the combination of lectures, tutorials and practicals in order to foster in students the growth of theoretical and applied physics knowledge. Students completing this subject will have a solid foundation upon which to base their continued engineering studies. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1047 Co-requisite(s) MATH 1035 Learning Outcomes 1. Identify and explain the fundamental physical principles and laws relating to electricity, magnetism, physical optics, introductory quantum physics, and solid state physics.
2. Apply mathematical techniques to solve physics problems concerning electricity and magnetism, physical optics, and introductory quantum physics and solid state physics.
3. Execute experimental activities of a fundamental nature.
4. Competently report aims, method, analysis and findings on experimental activities. Subject Content 1. Electricity and Magnetism: Coulomb’s Law, Electric Fields, Gauss’s Law, Electric Potential, Capacitance, Magnetic Fields, Magnetic Field’s due to currents, Induction and Inductance,
2. Physical Optics: Electromagnetic Waves, Interference, Diffraction
3. Introductory Quantum Physics and Solid State Physics: Photons, Electrons and Atoms, Photos and Matter Waves, Conduction and Electricity in Solids. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 1,000 words (per report), 3 hours (practical exam) 20 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words with illustrations 20 N Group N  Quiz 45 minutes (per Quiz) 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,000 words (15%); 
 3 x A3 size
 annotated concept development (15%) 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 1,250  words (20%); Final proposal (20%) 

 7 minutes Presentation 
(10%) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) (3771) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)