Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 7007 Issues in the Criminal Justice System Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201068 Coordinator Rossi Kotsis Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will critically review the criminal justice system, analysing justifications for punishment as well as the policies and practices of various criminal justice agencies. Students will examine the influence of race, class, and gender on justice, and how these factors impact on the outcomes. Students will also engage with contemporary issues and ongoing debates in criminal justice wherever possible, through exposure to criminal justice agencies, prison, and connect with legal clients and practitioners to gain practical and professional understanding and experience. School Law Discipline Legal Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7048 - Criminal Law Incompatible Subjects JUST 3011 - Issues in the Criminal Justice System Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically review current approaches to crime and criminal justice.
Evaluate the dynamic nature of criminal justice and the social, political and legal factors which contribute to this dynamism.
Critically analyse the impact of the criminal justice system on different social groups, including Indigenous people.
Demonstrate advanced communication and collaboration skills.
Articulate solutions to contemporary issues in criminal justice in response to experience in and exposure to real cases, clients and legal practitioners in the criminal justice system. Subject Content The following topics comprise the list from which each semester's content will be based. However depending on guest speakers and student interest not every topic is necessarily covered. Themes in Criminal Justice
Criminal legal theory
Crime and Indigenous Australians
Crime and Statistics
The Jury
Victims of Crime
Sentencing
Prisons and penalty
Restorative Justice
Victim-offender conferencing
Terrorism
History of criminal law and procedure
International crime and tribunals
Psychology and crime
Public order
Police practices Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Ongoing throughout subject S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 30 minutes for presentation 500 word for post-presentation reflection S/U Y Group/Individual Y  Report 2,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Laws (2824)