Academic Handbook Current Edition PROC 2002 Innovative Foods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301452 Coordinator Malik Hussain Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the principles of food preservation, including heat treatments, chilling, freezing, dehydration, pickles and fermentation. Factors affecting food quality are explored with respect to microbial, chemical and physical changes in food and their effects on food safety, nutritional value and sensory characteristics. The basic principles of good manufacturing practises, sanitation and Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) for control of food safety will be studied in relation to the design of safe food manufacturing processes. The application of the food preservation principles to the processing of food products is covered through hands-on practicals in the pilot plant. School Science Discipline Food Processing Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PROC 1005 - Introduction to Food Science Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of first year chemistry and biology; understanding of food composition. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the factors affecting food quality with respect to microbial, chemical and physical changes and their effects on food safety, nutritional value and sensory quality
Explain the principles of sustainable food processing and preservation
Identify the development stages critical to developing innovative foods.
Articulate the critical control points and prerequisite programs needed to ensure the safety (HACCP plan) for a food process. Subject Content 1. Developments in food innovation to produce new food products.
2. Factors affecting nutrition, quality, shelf life, and safety of the innovative foods during processing.
3. Principles of food preservation including heat treatments, chilling, freezing, dehydration, acid preserves, fermentation, and packaging.
4. Food safety assessment and novel foods regulations.
5. Application of good manufacturing practises (GMPs) and food safety management systems in food manufacturing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4x 15 minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 20 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Malik Hussain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC)