Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3009 Arabic 301 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101949 Coordinator Nawal Sami Opens in new window Description This is the first of a series of two subjects that aim to provide a thorough review of comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills, as well as grammar and vocabulary of Modern Standard Arabic, its range of registers and its linguistic characteristics. This subject is intended for students who have knowledge and skills in Arabic equivalent to two years of tertiary education in the language and who wish to consolidate, develop and improve these skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge All level 2 Arabic subjects or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use their knowledge of Arabic grammar and apply it in speaking, reading and writing at an advanced;
Demonstrate their skill in Arabic aural comprehension;
Read aloud and converse in Arabic;
Read Arabic in different genres and for different purposes;
Use their receptive and active Arabic vocabulary;
Write in different genres of Arabic. Subject Content Aural comprehension practice in Arabic by listening to visiting speakers, audio and video tapes, radio and television broadcasts.
Speaking practice in Modern Standard Arabic in spontaneous and prepared discussions and short talks on a variety of topics.
Practice in reading a variety of specialised texts (e.g. literary, scientific, educational, etc.).
Practice in various forms of writing in Arabic for official and academic purposes. Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 4 hours reading and listening: 5 minutes presentation 40 N Individual N  Practical 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Nawal Sami Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nawal Sami Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)