Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 2006 Fields of Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102172 Coordinator Robyn North Opens in new window School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points and must be enrolled in 1665 Bachelor of Community Welfare, 1666 Bachelor of Social Work or 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/ Bachelor of Social Work. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the structure of society with respect to power and disadvantage including the influence of gender, age, ability, sexuality, ethnicity and economic disadvantage.
Demonstrate an understanding of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander ways of knowing, being and doing in social work practice.
Develop foundational skills for social work and welfare practice.
Describe the social, political, legal, cultural and organisational contexts and systems and how they impact on people.
Identify a practice framework that draws on contemporary theory, knowledge, methods and professional values.
Critically evaluate the challenges and opportunities for social work practice within a global and environmental context. Subject Content 1. Child care and child safety
2. Mental health
3. Disability
4. Working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities’ perspectives on welfare services
5. Working with individuals, groups and communities from rural and remote locations.
6. Working with older people
7. Community justice
8. Social work in health settings
9. International social work
10. GLBTQI social work practice
11. Homelessness Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Robyn North Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robyn North Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)