Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3025 Chinese 306: Traditional Chinese Thought Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100510 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject is a thematic subject in the BA Key Program Languages and the BA Interpreting and Translation.  It is part of the Chinese major or sub-major and can also be taken as an elective.  It introduces students to Chinese thought and way of life - the Confucian-Daoist tradition.  Students will explore how China's ancient wisdom shapes its long resilient civilization and how it helps the nation maintain its cultural identity while it exerts an international influence on today's world.  Students will read selected works of prominent Chinese thinkers in the original or English versions. This subject will be conducted in Chinese and English. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Chinese 202 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes gain an appreciation of the resilience and resourcefulness of China's ancient wisdom and of its historical development.
gain an insight into the interplay between philosophical thought, religion, society, government, culture and life to meet challenges and opportunities of a historical change.
have a deepened understanding of the true qualities and strengths of Chinese cultural traditions.
enhance their appreciation of the continuing relevance of traditional Chinese thought to contemporary Chinese society.
further develop their ability to appreciate classical Chinese texts.
develop their reflective, comparative and critical-thinking skills and ability to use such skills to analyse Chinese cultural or social issues through research, presentation and proposal/essay writing.
be enriched by the treasures of the past and participate in conversations concerning the present and future directions in Chinese culture, thought and philosophy. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 - 20 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1200 - 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)