Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 2018 Crime Prevention and Drugs Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102708 Coordinator Sharon Kwok Opens in new window Description This subject will examine the theory, politics and practice of crime prevention while exploring how this relates to alcohol, illicit drug use and criminalisation. In particular, this subject will explore key elements of alcohol and other drugs (AOD) research, service delivery and policy approaches that are framed, both practically and symbolically as crime prevention measures. It will address current approaches to crime prevention, evaluate their effectiveness and examine emerging strategies in the field. Some key case studies in the field of critical drugs studies will be used throughout this subject to demonstrate some principles of crime prevention introduced in the first part of the subject. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects CULT 3008 - Crime Prevention and Community Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain key theoretical frameworks underpinning approaches to crime prevention.
Analyse the concept of criminalization and its relationship to drug use and crime prevention.
Demonstrate knowledge of the link between critical drugs studies and crime prevention principles.
Communicate crime prevention strategies to community and industry stakeholders. Subject Content Origins and theoretical foundations of crime prevention.
Types of crime prevention (i.e. social, physical, neighbourhood).
Planning and crime prevention partnerships.
Crime and drugs nexus.
Drugs, crime and harm minimisation as crime prevention.
Criminalisation, decriminalisation and legalisation of drugs. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Six quizzes (five questions each) 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 1500 35 N Individual N  Essay 1500 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Sharon Kwok Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Sharon Kwok Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sharon Kwok Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Sharon Kwok Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Sharon Kwok Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Policing (exit only) (1930) Bachelor of Criminology (1710) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Major (0006) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Minor (0006) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Other Society and Culture (CULT)