Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1043 Managing People at Work (Block) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500080 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description Managing People at Work' provides an introductory framework for the study of employment relations. The subject is approached from a stakeholder perspective, emphasising the way that management, labour and the State, along with other key stakeholders, act, both separately and together, to structure the employment relationship. In doing so, the subject integrates industrial relations and human resource management theory and practice, illustrating the links between the two disciplines. The content of the subject is structured so as to provide an initial introduction to the disciplines of industrial relations, human resource management, and employment relations, and to the key stakeholders in the employment relationship. Building on this framework, a theoretical and empirical analysis of employment relations processes is provided, with particular emphasis given to recent changes in the role and perspectives of stakeholders. School Business Discipline Human Resource Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 1024 - Managing People at Work (UWSC) LGYB 0478 - Managing People at Work (Creative Industries) BUSM 1023 - Managing People at Work Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7180 - Undergraduate Certificate in Business Management Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the different approaches to the study and practice of employment relations.
Demonstrate recognition of the dynamics of industrial relations and human resource management both in the academic literature and in professional practice.
Identify internal and external stakeholders in the employment relationship and the goals and objectives of these stakeholders.
Analyse the way that these stakeholders act, together and separately, to shape employment relations processes.
Assess the complexity and dimensions of people management. Subject Content Exploring the complexity of managing people at work.
Work, organisation and stakeholders.
Determining, attracting and selecting human resources.
Developing and rewarding human resources.
Managing human resources.
Human resources in a changing world.
Building relationships at work. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 300 words 10 N Individual N  Case Study Presentation 10 minutes and Case Study 1000 words 40 N Group/Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Reflection 600 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Block A Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block B Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block E Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Undergraduate Certificate in Business Management (7180)