Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 1021 Web and Time-based Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101922 Coordinator Behrad Rezaei Opens in new window Description Students will develop fundamental computer software skills and design understandings appropriate to using major web and time based design technologies such as HTML and CSS. They will develop a working understanding of production literacies for online design and time-based design. Students will engage in practical studies of web authoring. Emphasis will be placed on understanding the roles, functions and features of key screen based technologies, design production context for online delivery, current industry best practices, and a working understanding of the responsibilities inherent in the digital design and production process. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects DESN 1020 - Web and Time-based Design DESN 1022 - Web and Time-based Design (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge Introductory level understanding of and skills in design principles particularly basic layout, colour and typographic knowledge. Digital basics including working in a networked environment on a Macintosh computer. Ability to manage, transport and store digital information. Learning Outcomes Apply graphic design concepts appropriate to the specific concerns of a time-based and/or online environment.
Apply methods and processes for planning web sites and time-based outcomes.
Demonstrate an applied understanding of designing to a brief with regard to online contexts, audiences and genres.
Use terminology and apply industry practices appropriate to preparing, generating and deploying web sites and time-based outcomes.
Demonstrate an applied understanding of the major technologies such as HTML, CSS and JQUERY as the basis for authoring web sites..
Demonstrate an applied understanding of the standard software applications for producing, optimising and manipulating images or artwork for web and/or time-based outcomes. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes, in-class quiz 10 N Individual N  Applied Project Multi or single page (long scroll) website 35 N Individual N  Applied Project Multi or single page (long scroll) website 15 N Individual N  Applied Project Multi or single page (long scroll) website with time-based element 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Behrad Rezaei Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Game Design, Testamur Major (T060) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN) Information Systems (INFS) Interactive Analytics, Major (0203)