Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7053 Equity & Trusts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201054 Coordinator Maria Bhatti Opens in new window Description This subject examines the principles of Equity and the law of trusts in Australia. The primary emphasis is on the nature and development of equitable principles and introduces students to fundamental principles in the law of trusts in a culturally diverse society. Topics include the nature and application of principles and maxims of Equity, the trust, the types of trusts and introduction to express trusts. The subject emphasises contemporary applications of the rules, principles and remedies of Equity, including the operation of the principles of Equity in relation to First Nations peoples. It also explores issues that are presently unresolved and the subject of contention. Students will be able to use a range of legal research tools to select high quality and relevant primary and secondary legal information to support the construction of solutions to hypothetical problems and theoretical legal issues that indicate a deep comprehension of Equity and trusts. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Fundamentals of Australian Law Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7067 Property Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3018 Equity Trusts Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse principles, procedure and policy of Equity and trusts, and their relationship to broader social, economic and political contexts, including in relation to First Nations peoples.
Construct solutions to hypothetical problems and theoretical legal issues that indicate a deep comprehension of equity and trusts in a culturally diverse society.
Use a range of legal research tools to select high quality and relevant primary and secondary legal information.
Evaluate the quality, currency and relevance of legal and non-legal information from a range of primary and secondary sources Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,500 words 45 N Individual Y  Participation Ongoing throughout semester 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Maria Bhatti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Maria Bhatti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maria Bhatti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)