Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7094 Primary Mathematics and Numeracy 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101584 Coordinator Dorian Stoilescu Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the subject Primary Mathematics and Numeracy 1 with a focus on learners from Year 3 to Year 6, and assumes students have gained familiarity with the knowledge, skills and understandings children required across all strands of the NSW Mathematics K-10 Syllabus, with a focus on Year 3 to Year 6, including the Working Mathematically components. The subject will model explicit numeracy instruction and scaffolding of numerical, spatial, graphical, statistical, and algebraic domains. In this subject, students develop their understanding of primary mathematics in the mid to upper primary years, with a strong emphasis on aspects of teaching such as student engagement, assessment, differentiation for diversity and the integration of technology. By engaging with this subject, students will have the opportunity to experience, plan and assess a broad range of practices to enhance learning outcomes and improve engagement with mathematics. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) or 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the development of the concepts, skills and processes of mathematics related to the teaching of number and algebra, measurement and space, and statistics and probability for Year 3 to Year 6 using relevant syllabus and curriculum documents.
Implementation of the relevant NSW K-10 Mathematics syllabus across all strands, with particular focus on the Working Mathematically strand.
Plan effective and engaging teaching and learning experiences for mid to upper primary learners that include the use of a range of digital resources to enhance student outcomes.
Apply knowledge and understanding of a range of engaging pedagogies for teaching and learning mathematics, including cooperative learning, problem solving and investigation-based approaches.
Evaluate student learning against curriculum requirements by interpreting student work samples, practising consistent and comparable judgements, and explain the importance of timely and appropriate feedback for student learning.
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of teaching and assessment strategies for differentiating teaching and learning experiences in mathematics to meet the specific needs of students across the full range of abilities. Subject Content Theories of engagement, numeracy development and learning in mathematics for students in the primary years.
Implementation of the NSW K-10 Mathematics syllabus across all strands, with particular focus on the Working Mathematically strand.
Incorporation of problem solving and investigation-based pedagogies in primary mathematics and numeracy.
Strategies to address affective issues relating to the teaching and learning of primary mathematics.
Effective use of digital technologies to enhance the teaching and learning of mathematics and improve student engagement.
Catering to learners from diverse backgrounds (e.g. cultural and linguistic).
Differentiation to address a range of abilities (including special needs and gifted and talented).
Investigation of rich tasks to promote critical numeracy.
Effective assessment of mathematics and numeracy.
Investigation of the requirements of the ACARA Numeracy Progressions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Dorian Stoilescu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Dorian Stoilescu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Dorian Stoilescu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Teacher Education (TEAC)