Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7003 Practice of Cardiac Sonography 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401190 Coordinator Paul Stoodley Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will develop their image acquisition, optimisation and measurement skills. They will learn to perform more extensive cardiac sonographic scan and will further develop their professional and ethical attributes. This subject, which includes a work-integrated learning component, will ensure the consolidation of foundational skills, knowledge and attributes. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 5001 - Physics for Diagnostic Ultrasound
RADI 7002 - Practice of Sonography 1 (Cardiac) Co-requisite(s) RADI 6001 - Pathophysiology in Diagnostic Ultrasound Restrictions Students must be enrolled in  4743 - Graduate Diploma in Cardiac Sonography or 4751 - Master of Cardiac Sonography. Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy and physiology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply knowledge of imaging protocols to ensure quality sonographic practice
2. Appraise acquisition, optimisation and measurement techniques to achieve diagnostic sonographic images
3. Differentiate normal from abnormal cardiac ultrasound features to support clinical decisions
4. Investigate communication styles to ensure best patient care and optimal professional relationships
5. Evaluate clinical experiences to enhance reflective practice skills. Subject Content Module 1: Sonographic Practice 2
I. (Cardiac) Image acquisition and measurements 3
II. (Cardiac) Image acquisition and measurements 4 Module 2: Professional & Ethical Practice 2
I. Professional Communication
II. Ethical practice
III. Work health safety & ergonomics
IV. Professional development Module 3: Speciality Imaging Skills II
I. Measuring LV systolic function 1
II. Measuring LV diastolic function 1
III. Evaluating Valve Function 1
IV. Evaluating Cardiomyopathies 1
V. Evaluating Cardiomyopathies 2 Work integrated learning Each student will have an accredited cardiac sonographer as a clinical supervisor at their training site. The clinical supervisor will be provided with numerous means of support by WSU, including: 
- An email at the commencement of the program from the program coordinator to verify support for the student and to ensure the supervisor that they can contact the coordinator at any time.
- Information about subject content each semester via email: 1. Learning Objectives - sent at the start of the semester, and 2. Practical assessment details - sent at the mid-point of the semester.
- A Zoom meeting in week 3 of the first semester where clinical supervisor recommendations are given (along with the opportunity for Q and A). Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the ultrasonography course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in locations other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be competed if, and when required). Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2 Cardiac sonography cases with questions and answers 25 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 300 entries including reflective learning activities S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Paul Stoodley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Cardiac Sonography (4743) Master of Cardiac Sonography (4751) Radiography (RADI)