Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 1010 Sport for Social Development (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the concept of Sport for Development.  Students will explore the role sports and physical recreation can play in achieving positive social outcomes in communities, both locally and internationally. Students will learn about the multidisciplinary nature of Sport for Development and how the disciplines of health and sports science, sports management and community development come together in the planning, implementation and evaluation of sports and physical recreation projects. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 1008 Restrictions Students need to be registered in Diploma in Business 7177 at the Sydney Olympic Park campus. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of the sports industry, and an appreciation of the diverse communities that exist locally and internationally. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the multidisciplinary nature of Sport for Development.
Examine and discuss the roles sport and physical recreation play in contemporary society.
Evaluate the impact of sporting programs as an agent for change to generate positive social outcomes in communities.
Compare and contrast the different organisations operating in the Sport for Development field, both locally and internationally.
Critically evaluate real-world Sport for Development programs, both locally and internationally. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 3 minutes 10 N Individual N  Critical Review 750 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Proposal 5 minutes per student + Proposal 25 N Group N Teaching Periods Term 3 (2024) Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Business (7177) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)