Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 6001 Urban Transformation Research Project Credit Points 10 Coordinator Greg Morrison Opens in new window Description An essential skill required by researchers is the ability to propose research, justify it in a persuasive manner, and undertake a project with rigor. Through interactive workshops, Urban Transformation Research Project helps students develop and refine a research proposal. The subject provides students will the opportunity to conduct either (a) a traditional written thesis or (b) a project based design research project. There is no class work, rather, students work individually alongside a supervisor with significant expertise in the area of researching and developing their individual project.
After successful completion of this subject, students will have demonstrated an ability to design, justify, and undertake a research project in their discipline which will benefit them in their future careers. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Develop a range of relevant research findings around a project theme, based on selected literature, precedent design examples, and project context.
Devise a self-directed brief that responds to an identified issue or area of interest. 
Demonstrate skills in the ethical conduct of research, the justification of the research, and the definition of the contribution to new knowledge and/or innovation.
Produce research outcomes that demonstrate an understanding of relevant professional contexts. 
Employ independent learning and project management skills to undertake and meet research or project requirements.
Present research findings and outcomes to a diverse audience using appropriate media, processes and strategies. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 6 pages 30 N Individual N  Report 1000 words exegesis plus creative work  or 3000 words thesis 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 30 minutes 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Greg Morrison Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Greg Morrison Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761)