Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5017 Languages Curriculum 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102891 Coordinator Mark Richards Opens in new window Description In this subject, the place of Languages in secondary curriculum will be further explored using evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for teaching a range of Languages using inquiry pedagogy. They will a focus on assessment design for range of levels in Language teaching and the importance of culturally situated learning. The subject will demonstrate approaches for engaging diverse secondary learners from native speakers to beginners. Pre-service teachers will develop subject and assessment plans and demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. The subject requires students to develop original portfolio of teaching artefacts that demonstrate capacity to create and critique resources for effective teaching and learning in Languages. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7027 AND
TEAC 7004 AND
TEAC 7032 Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have a relevant Language Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Generate and critically evaluate Languages curriculum program for students which synthesises a variety of pedagogical approaches and resources appropriate to these year levels, assessment tasks and curriculum content.
Critically analyse and develop a variety of research-informed classroom strategies which cater for individual differences in student learning in the classroom.
Evaluate the relationship between learning task design, student learning and expertise, higher order thinking, assessment, feedback and reporting strategies and evaluation in Languages Education.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of language assessment instruments for writing, speaking and listening that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design and select innovative resources that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching arrange of Languages and develop students critical and creative capabilities. 
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of Languages teaching. Subject Content What is the nature of the subject in the secondary education including the concepts, substance and structure of Languages teaching?
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the subject? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2018) Languages Stage 6 Syllabuses. Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)