Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2027 Engineering Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301341 Coordinator Richard Yang Opens in new window Description This subject will be offered at Engineering Innovation Hub - Hassall St, Parramatta campus.  Design thinking is a fundamental skill that every engineer must have for the 21st Century. It is one of the skills that profoundly distinguish human intelligence from artificial intelligence, which greatly impacts an engineer's long-term career success in the workplace. This subject aims to equip students with the domain-independent and solution-neutral design thinking, which can be applied to whatever technical stream students choose to pursue in the future. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in 3771 Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Conduct collaborative product planning to formulate a unique design problem by translating customer needs to functional requirements
Perform collaborative conceptual design to generate, evaluate, and select the functionally simple and physically certain concepts
Document the design process and present the design outcome through presentation, report, logbook, and CAD drawing.
Design mechanical components to satisfy the target functional requirements against design constraints Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 10 pages 30 N Individual N  Report 12 pages 60 N Group N  Presentation 5 minutes 10 N Group N Structures that include subject Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104)