Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7013 Professional Reasoning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400925 Coordinator Rosalind Bye Opens in new window Description This final year subject focuses on the transition from student to practitioner.  The aim of this subject is to provide students with learning opportunities that will consolidate and enhance their competence in professional practice throughout their career.  Professional competencies of central concern include advanced clinical reasoning skills, evidence based-practice, reflective practice, personal and career management strategies, self-directed and life long learning.  These competencies contribute positively to the effective management of graduates clinical practice in various work contexts, and their future career paths.  Acquisition of such skills will allow the graduate to direct and adapt to change in these areas. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) REHA 7011 OR
REHA 7013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Occupational Therapy, 4664 Master of Occupational Therapy, 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify various models and classifications of clinical reasoning and analyse their use in practice
Apply occupational therapy theories and conceptual models to guide clinical reasoning in practice scenarios
Apply the occupational therapy problem solving process to practice scenarios and reflect on clinical reasoning during the different stages of problem solving
Critically reflect on their own clinical reasoning skills and identify strategies to move from a novice to expert reasoning
Apply principles of ethical reasoning to various practice scenarios Subject Content 1. Models and theories of clinical reasoning
2. Use of clinical reasoning to guide client management
3. Models and theories of occupational therapy practice and process
4. Using evidence based practice to guide client management and the role of evidence-based practice in clinical reasoning
5. Strategies to move from novice to expert in clinical reasoning
6. Principles of ethical reasoning Structures that include subject Other Health (HLTH)