Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2015 Cultural History of Books and Reading Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101967 Coordinator Simon Burrows Opens in new window Description This Subject explores the globally-transformative social and cultural changes associated withs books and reading from the European print revolution of the mid-fifteenth century to the present day. It considers the key innovations and continuities in the shift from oral and medieval manuscript cultures to printed books, before going on to explore the societal impact of the mass-produced printed book. Key topics include the relationship between printed books and the Protestant reformation, scientific revolution and Enlightenment; the ‘reading revolution’ and rise of the novel and popular literacy; reader responses; the emergence of the public sphere and mass media, and their links to consumer culture, colonialism and political modernity. Taking a culturally comparative approach wherever possible, the Subject also discusses indigenous peoples’ encounters with print, attempts to control print through censorship and the future of the printed book. Assessment tasks and class activities will provide students with the opportunity to engage with printed artefacts and to hone their research skills using a variety of cutting-edge digital resources to explore print culture and reader response. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the development of the book as a cultural and material object.


Critically analyse contemporary and historiographical debates about the past and future of the book and of reading.


Use digital resources to research the history of printed works or individual readers.


Critically evaluate issues of medium and form in relation to reader experience and cultural transformation. Discuss the development of the book as a cultural and material object. Critically analyse contemporary and historiographical debates about the past and future of the book and of reading. Use digital resources to research the history of printed works or individual readers. Critically evaluate issues of medium and form in relation to reader experience and cultural transformation. Subject Content Topics may include: Scribal Culture in the Middle Ages
The Print Revolution in the West
Print and the Protestant Reformation
Reading, Science and Enlightenment
The Reading Revolution Debate and the Rise of the Novel
Popular and Associational Reading
Public Sphere, Politics and Revolution
Print and the Consumer Revolution
Censorship Regimes
Print and Colonisation
Literacy and Education
Mass Media and Social Control
Digital Publishing and the Future of the Book Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minute recorded presentation + 500 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 1,000 words 40 N Individual N Summer On-site The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam 1,000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minute video + 1,000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Language and Literature (LANG) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary English Education, Major (0354) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164)