Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5024 Music Curriculum 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102877 Coordinator Rachel White Opens in new window Description The subject will examine and model effective contemporary classroom practice in teaching Music in Stages 4 and 5. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the performance, production and composition principles related to the discipline of Music. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years 7-10  Syllabuses and links with the K-6 curriculum will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on pedagogical content knowledge underlying Music teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant and creative texts, create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of Music education. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714 or 1914 must have a Music Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate understanding of NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 4 and 5 syllabuses and the effect upon syllabus implementation of current NSW and Australian educational policies and priorities.
Demonstrate understanding of socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in teaching Music, including those of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design and select innovative teaching resources that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching Music and include opportunities to develop students’ performance, composition and production skills.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of  sources in teaching lessons and programs.
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of Music teaching. Subject Content What is the nature of the Music in the early and middle years of secondary education? How is the subject linked to what is taught in primary school and in the senior years of secondary education?
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in Music?
How does Music play an important role in the social, cultural, aesthetic and spiritual lives of people including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples? 
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in Music?
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the subject? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Board of Studies (2003) Music Syllabus Years 7-10 Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)