Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 3010 Politics of Post-War Japan Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100278 Coordinator Peter Mauch Opens in new window Description The subject studies the post-war Japanese political experience: a vanquished country transformed into an economic super power with a 'peace' constitution and now in relative decline. In particular the subject will examine the impact of the dominance of the Liberal Democratic Party on domestic politics and the intersection between domestic political developments and security and foreign policy matters. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Political Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the major developments in post-war Japanese politics
Demonstrate knowledge of the linkages between 'domestic' and 'international' politics in Japan
Show an understanding of the main political parties and the assumptions implicit in each party
Identify multiple perspectives on Japanese politics
Interpret current policy debates and international trends relevant to Japan. Subject Content World War II: What was Japan fighting for? 
The occupation period and impact 
Independence and the Yoshida Doctrine 
Godzilla and the fear of nuclear annihilation 
Security Treaty Crisis 
Tokyo Olympics 
Japan as number one? 
Japan in the brave new, post-Cold War world 
Remembering World War II 
Revisiting Article 9 
What does it mean to be Japanese, anyway? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation Between 5 minutes and 7 minutes 25 N Individual N  Essay 3,000 words 30 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2,000 words maximum 30 N Individual Y  Participation Semester-long participation in class 15 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Mauch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Peter Mauch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) International Relations and Asian Studies, Major (0019) International Relations and Asian Studies, Minor (0019) Political Science and Policy (POLI)