Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3025 Occupational Therapy Process Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400912 Coordinator Rosalind Bye Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the knowledge and skills to apply the occupational therapy problem-solving process in an evidence-based way, across a diverse range of practice situations. Students will gain knowledge in the application of each stage of the occupational therapy process, learn skills in the selection and implementation of assessments and outcome measures, and undertake intervention planning to suit clients with different occupational needs and health trajectories. Different occupational therapy approaches will be reviewed and students will gain skills in tailoring intervention approaches to suit client need and practice context. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4664 Master of Occupational Therapy. Pre-requisite for 4663 is 400160 - Introduction to Occupational Therapy. Co-requisite for 4664 is 400911 - Occupational Therapy Theory and Practice Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe in detail the occupational therapy problem-solving process of referral, assessment, goal setting, planning, intervention and evaluation of outcomes as it applies to practice situations
Determine the conceptual approach to suit specific practice areas and clients with different health trajectories
Investigate and select appropriate assessment and outcome measures for specific client groups
Implement and interpret commonly used assessments, interventions and outcome measures used by occupational therapists in a variety of practice contexts
Formulate SMART goals and develop therapeutic interventions for individuals or groups
Apply knowledge and skills of evidence-based practice to each step of this process Subject Content 1. The occupational therapy problem-solving process: referral, assessment, goal setting, planning, intervention, and evaluation of outcomes
2. Knowledge and skills of evidence-based practice relevant to each step of this process
3. Skills to analyse, select, implement and interpret appropriate assessments and outcome measures
4. Formulation of SMART goals to guide interventions
5. Models of service provision to guide practice: e.g. individual client-centred therapy, family-centred therapy, group work, case management, consultancy
6. Application of the occupational therapy problem-solving process to suit clients with different health trajectories, e.g. a developmental process for children and young people, a rehabilitative process post injury/stroke, a compensatory process for older people or those with declining health, a palliative process for people who are dying. Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)