Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3022 Occupation and the Environment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400165 Coordinator Beth Mayland Opens in new window Description In this subject students will understand how the environment not only provides a context for the activities people choose to engage in, but also how well they can complete them. Students will learn how the social, cultural, physical and institutional environments that they live in can influence health and well-being, provide structures for social inclusion or exclusion, and enable or limit people to participate in everyday activities. Using an occupational lens, students will gain skills in analysing environmental barriers to occupational performance and modifying environments to increase participation. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2006 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4664 Master of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply an occupational therapy model of practice to evaluate environmental influences on occupational performance.
Conduct an analysis of the physical, social, cultural and institutional dimensions of the environment and make recommendations to increase community access and participation.
Analyse occupational performance issues in the home and make recommendations regarding environmental modifications, consistent with the building and electrical standards, for a range of client case studies.
Design home modification diagrams to industry standard using relevant computer assisted drawing programs.
Prepare an occupational therapy home modification report, including scale diagrams, for a client. Subject Content 1. Assessment of social, cultural, physical and institutional aspects of the environment which influence occupational performance.
2. Occupational performance considerations for people living with a disability which influence environmental access and design.
3. Universal design principles.
4. Anthropometrics.
5. Legislative and funding considerations influencing environmental design and modifications.
6. Environmental modifications for the home environment.
7. Technical drawings of physical environments.
8. Documentation of environmental modifications based on occupational performance. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 500 word report and resource (eg 5 minute video, 3 page website, or A5 pamphlet or equivalent) 30 N Group Y  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 800 words plus 8-12 diagrams (as required) 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kristy Coxon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)