Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 3005 Applied Biomechanics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401147 Coordinator Peter Clothier Opens in new window Description To fully understand the science underlying the optimisation of human movement, students require a comprehensive working knowledge of Biomechanics. This subject represents a theoretical and applied study of selected topics in Biomechanics. It builds on the basic principles of Biomechanics that are presented in the subject Biomechanics and applies this knowledge to the analysis of sporting and human exercise performance. To achieve this, advanced methods and concepts in the biomechanical analysis of human performance are identified and explored. School Health Sciences Discipline Biological Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2003 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 3006 - Applied Biomechanics of Exercise BIOS 3007 - Applied Biomechanics of Sport and Exercise Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4658 - Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science). Assumed Knowledge It is expected that students have the knowledge and skills associated with the prerequisite subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and apply biomechanical principles to assess movement in the context of health, exercise, sport and/or activities of daily living in a variety of populations.
Articulate and synthesise factors governing efficient movement from a biomechanical perspective.
Utilise biomechanical measurement techniques to assess human movement, human interactions with equipment and the environment, and devise intervention strategies where appropriate.
Collect, process and present data common to biomechanical analyses using biomechanical equipment and software applications.
Identify and explain biomechanical factors associated with injury and injury prevention.
Describe and apply techniques to analyse gait using basic temporal, kinematic and kinetic measurement procedures.
Illustrate and explain muscle mechanics concepts that affect muscle performance. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam 1 hour 45 minutes 50 N Individual Y  Poster AO sized conference poster 30 N Group Y  Quiz Up to 30 min 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts There is no prescribed textbook for this subject. However, students may be required to refer to the pre-requisite subject HLTH2003 Biomechanics text Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Peter Clothier Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science) (4658) Biological Sciences (BIOS)