Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7108 Professional Practice Community Engagement Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102605 Coordinator Christina Curry Opens in new window Description Professional Practice Community Engagement is a Professional Experience subject of the Master of Teaching (Secondary), incorporating a five-day or 30 hours academic service learning placement and is designed to develop sustainable practical knowledge and skills that supplement those developed in the other Professional Experience subjects. This subject will expand Teacher Education students' understandings of the contemporary issues confronting the wider education community. As such, a diverse range of educational settings including  secondary school contexts are utilised to provide a deeper perspective for future secondary teachers beyond curriculum matters, and to facilitate engagement with holistic schooling practices. Teacher Education students choose from the available educational contexts  to suit their needs, interests, expertise and communities. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 7002 - Professional Experience 3 TEAC 7139 - Secondary Professional Practice 3 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1714, 1848, 1652, 1823, 2804, 1843, 3756, 4791, 6013 or 6021. Students enrolled in 1652, 1823 ,2804, 1843, 3756 or 4791 must have achieved 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6021 must have achieved 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6013 must have achieved 180 credit points (150 at Level 1 or higher)  to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Engage in critical and sustained reflection on their practice throughout the Professional Practice.
Integrate knowledge, understandings and skills relevant to teaching and learning in traditional and non-traditional educational settings.
Apply the requirements and responsibilities of all teachers / educators to the specific context of this Professional Practice.
Integrate personal learning experiences into the situation in which they will teach to promote student learning.
Demonstrate good communication skills and the ability to work effectively and contribute as part of a team of educators.
Display initiative and take responsibility for formulating a personal professional development plan.
Critically evaluate personal professional development and articulate this development through a written reflective response. Subject Content How diverse are educational settings? What are the implications of my setting for my future as a secondary school teacher?
What is outcomes-based education? Why is an outcomes-based approach relevant in any educational setting?
What role does critical reflection play in the professional development of teachers? How can I apply critical reflection to learn through my interactions with my setting?
What evaluation strategies can I use in my setting? How will these strategies help me to appraise the effectiveness of teaching and learning in my setting?
How do I prepare for a 30 hour professional practice in an educational learning context? Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
 i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
 ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
 iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link
b) Students will need to:
 i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
 ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
 iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT)
a) Students will need to:
i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
b) Students will need to:
i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Secondary). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 500 words S/U N Individual N  Practical 30 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 500 words S/U N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Christina Curry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Christina Curry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Christina Curry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Christina Curry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Education Studies - Secondary Teaching, Minor (0267) Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1716) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Teacher Education (TEAC)