Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2020 Health Services Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400277 Coordinator Nicole Peel Opens in new window Description The health workplace is a complex and sophisticated environment that can be understood in many different ways and mean different things to different members of an organisation. Assumptions about organisational structure and action are based on conceptualisations and beliefs about the nature and goals of an organisation. This subject aims to develop an introductory understanding of health administration and management practice and business skills required in an evolving health landscape in concordance with the international competency framework for health administrators and managers. School Health Sciences Discipline Public and Health Care Administration Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 3711 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) must have completed or be enrolled in INFS 3010 Healthcare Data Environments Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2021 - Health Services Management (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the fundamentals of organising, organisational design and culture in health care services.
Articulate basic health management skills in monitoring and controlling human and capital resources, risk management and work safety.
Distinguish and use the fundamentals of leading and group dynamics in health care.
Apply management decision making practices used to ensure quality outcomes for both patients and staff in health services.
Analyse the strategic planning, strategic management, performance management and decision-making processes of the health system in the current climate of reform. Subject Content 1. Introduction to the profession of health management, historical perspectives, current competencies and employability skills.
2. The environment of management comparing public and private sector, managing diversity and change, quality management, ethics and social responsibility.
3. Fundamentals of organising and provision of services ? what and for whom are we managing?
4. Data used by managers.
5. Organisational design and culture.
6. Work design.
7. Introduction to human resource management and workforce planning.
8. Managerial decision making.
9. Fundamentals of planning and strategic management.
10. Risk management and workplace safety.
11. Fundamentals of controlling and leadership.
12. Current issues and concerns in health management. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection  500 words  25 N Individual   Critical Review: Comparative Analysis 1,000 words 35 N Individual   Final Exam: Multiple Choice  120 minutes  40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Health Management, Major (0170)