Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7020 Introduction to Interpreting PG Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101695 Coordinator Margot Seligmann Opens in new window Description This is the core subject for students in postgraduate coursework programs in Interpreting and Translation. It introduces students to translation theory and practice of Interpreting. Lectures are held in English for students of all languages. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Chinese (Mandarin), Spanish, Korean and Vietnamese. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 2089 - Interpreting 1 LGYB 2090 - Interpreting 2 LGYB 2851 - Introduction to Interpreting Incompatible Subjects LANG 7019 - Interpreting and Translation Theory Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate understanding of linguistic and interpreting theories and apply them to interpreting practice and research;
resolve issues of accuracy and equivalence, including register equivalence and the difficulties and controversies surrounding it;
recognise cross-cultural differences that influence and are reflected in the use of language;
explain the different roles of the interpreter according to type of interpreting;
demonstrate proficiency in dialogue interpreting, chuchotage, consecutive interpreting and sight translation at an introductory level in different settings.
demonstrate effective note-taking skills for dialogue and consecutive interpreting; and
identify significant aspects of the interpreting profession in Australia, NAATI qualifications, and ethics of the profession. Subject Content 1. General overview of the theories of pragmatics and discourse analysis as they relate to interpreting,
2. The meaning of accuracy of interpretation and equivalence at the different levels of the language hierarchy and according to different types of interpreting,
3. The meaning of register, the importance of maintaining the source language register in interpretation and the implications of not maintaining it,
4. The different roles of the interpreter according to the type of interpreting,
5. Introduction to the techniques of dialogue interpreting, chuchotage, consecutive interpreting and sight translation,
6. Practice of the different interpreting techniques in education, housing and welfare settings,
7. Introduction to and practice of note taking skills for liaison and consecutive interpreting,
8. Familiarisation with available dictionaries, thesauruses, and other useful resources and guidance on how to use them effectively in the preparation of interpreting assignments,
9. The Interpreting profession in Australia and its codes of ethics. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 5-10 minutes per student per task 35 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 30 minutes per student 35 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 1 hour in class 15 N Individual Y  Annotated Bibliography 1000 words 15 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Margot Seligmann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Margot Seligmann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting (1775) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting Studies (exit only) (1778) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)