Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 2006 Graphic Design: The Professional Context Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102270 Coordinator Leo Robba Opens in new window Description In this subject, students begin to situate their graphic design practice within a contemporary professional context. Designers today need to collaborate with colleagues or other professionals, and the majority of graphic design briefs require solutions that converge across a variety of media platforms and two, three or four dimensions. Students will undertake projects that extend their design thinking in these areas. Part of the subject requires students to work as part of a team, to develop content and a solution that engages the audience through a range of different media. Throughout this subject, students continue to extend their visual language, and associated material and digital skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1007 Assumed Knowledge 120 credit points in 1571 Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Use a range of communication skills that facilitate working collaboratively in design teams.
Devise and apply effective workflow strategies as an individual and as part of a team.
Evaluate a range of digital and material methods in relation to the execution of ideas and differentiate between the appropriateness of such methods in the development of a designed solution.
Use appropriate digital and material processes in response to the design brief, client and audience.
Employ a conceptual approach to the development of design ideas and apply this thinking into three dimensional form and multi-platform scenarios. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1000 words 
10 minutes
 60 N Group/Individual Y  Professional Task 3 process milestones plus final design solution 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Leo Robba Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic and Design (DESN)