Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3017 Work Experience in Sport and Exercise Science Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400904 Coordinator Chloe Taylor Opens in new window Description Experience in the field of study is an essential ingredient in marketing an individual for employment and often for professional memberships. Work Experience in Sport and Exercise Science provides students with an opportunity to observe and assist Sport & Exercise Science practitioners in action and to learn in a practical setting. Students will have the opportunity to see how knowledge and skills acquired in lectures and tutorials/laboratories can be applied and also relate theoretical concepts and skills to situations in exercise-related settings.
. School Health Sciences Discipline Human Movement Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students in course versions 46581 46582 and 46583 must successfully complete three pre-requisite units - BIOS 2037 Sport and Exercise Physiology REHA 3012 Exercise in Musculo-Skeletal Rehabilitation and SPRT 2009 Professional Development and Work Experience Students in course version 46584 must successfully complete two prerequisite units - BIOS 2012 Exercise Physiology and HLTH 2005 Exercise Prescription 1 Equivalent Subjects SPRT 3015 - Sport and Exercise Science in Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4658 Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Provide evidence of personal and professional development through observation, experimentation and practice, under the supervision of an experienced practitioner.
Deliver exercise related services effectively and safely in compliance with OH&S, standard operating procedures, and the Exercise and Sport Science Australia (ESSA) code of professional conduct and ethical practice.
Maintain confidential client records of health status, fitness tests, exercise programming, and valid informed consent.
Communicate effectively in written, oral and nonverbal forms.
Understand and critically evaluate the structure and function of a sport or exercise related industry.
Establish additional personal contacts in the exercise industry. Subject Content 1. Establish contacts within a sport/exercise - related industry
2. Preparation of a learning contract through negotiation with an agency supervisor
3. Course 4658 (versions 1, 2 and 3): 80 hours placement within the industry of sport and exercise science at an approved agency under the guidance of an approved supervisor
4. Course 4658 (version 4): 140 hours placement within the industry of sport and exercise science at an approved agency under the guidance of an approved supervisor Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites To be eligible to enrol in this subject, students must submit and had processed:
1) a Student Undertaking Form.
2) a valid and current National Police Check,
3) a valid and current Working with Children Check.
4) a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation. 
Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook Course versions 4658.1, 4658.2 and 4658.3: 80 hours, course version 4658.4: 140 hours S/U Y Individual N  Learning Contract 14 pages S/U Y Individual N  Report 3-4 pages S/U Y Individual N  Professional Task 1 page S/U Y Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Chloe Taylor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science) (4658) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)