Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7035 Surgical Pathology 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401231 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description In 2022 this subject replaced by subject 401476 - General Surgical Pathology and Gastrointestinal Pathology. This subject introduces diagnostic entities in surgical pathology entities gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological and haemato-pathology. The subject provides training in basic research skills, communication skills, and critical thinking. The self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images, practical notes, recorded lectures and quizzes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of the gastrointestinal tract and liver. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Assumed Knowledge A basic undergraduate level knowledge in Pathology and microscopy skills is expected, as the candidates will have a MBBS or equivalent pre-requisite degree. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialties of gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological, and haematopathology.
Assess ancillary techniques in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions within the subspecialties of gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological, and haematopathology.
Assess common and uncommon disease entities in gastrointestinal and liver pathology, including the diagnosis of non-neoplastic, benign and malignant entities.
Engage in professional development activities related to anatomical pathology.
Use evidence-based approach to inform the practice of surgical pathology in the subspecialties of gastrointestinal and liver, breast, head and neck, paediatric, gynaecological, and haematopathology . Subject Content 1. Gastrointestinal tract and liver pathology
2. Breast pathology
3. Head and neck pathology
4. Paediatric pathology
5. Gynaecological pathology
6. Haematopathology Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students need to meet the legislative requirements to be in a supervised specialist training role in Pathology, and hence be working clinically in a hospital/laboratory setting. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 20 cases ~50-100 words each 50 Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tristan Rutland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)