Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2001 A Field Study: Comparative Studies of Health Care Delivery Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400958 Coordinator Shyama Ratnayake Opens in new window Description Australia has strict border measures in place to protect the health of the Australian community. Travel restrictions between Australian states and territories and in some remote areas of Australia are in place to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Further to this, there is a ban on overseas travel from Australia. You can't leave Australia unless you get an exemption from the Department of Home Affairs (source - https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/leaving-australia). Due to this ban on international travel, this subject will not be offered 2021 Summer A.   The focus of this subject is to provide nursing students with the problem-solving skills required in assessing and caring for people who are living in poverty in remote or rural areas in Australia and/or internationally. This subject is designed to enable students to develop cultural awareness and understanding of health care delivery and contemporary issues confronting health care for people who are living in remote or rural areas in Australia and/or internationally.  Students will be eligible for up to 80 hours of approved clinical hours following successful completion of the clinical assessment tool by an accredited registered nurse. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Compare the health care delivery in Western Sydney of regional/remote areas of Australia or Internationally
Identify major influences on, and common challenges to, health care delivery
Describe the relationship between the specific characteristics of health care delivery and health status outcomes for populations
Compare and contrast the health care delivery of Western Sydney and the country of study in this elective
Identify ethnic and cultural issues in the provision of culturally sensitive health care
Observe and/or participate in clinical activities of the health care delivery in the country of study
Demonstrate an awareness of their own culture and the culture of others Subject Content 1. Health care delivery components: health care providers, health care consumers, health care institutions and organisations
2. Major influences: environmental conditions, demography of the population, cultural factors, social organisation, economic factors, political system
3. Common challenges: accessibility, affordability, ageing population, changing ethnic composition of populations, chronic diseases and increasing morbidity, commercialised health care, consumer demands, cost control, ethical limits (e.g. on technological growth and innovation), health care quality, health care workforce (e.g. training, regulation, shortage), overspecialisation and focus on tertiary care (?ghospit Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 50 N Individual   Field Study Report 1,000 words 50 N Individual   Participation 6 hours and Duration of field study S/U Y Both (Individual & Group)   Professional Placement Performance Up to 80 hours S/U Y Individual Structures that include subject Other Health (HLTH)