Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3014 Digital Investigations and Forensics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102701 Coordinator Farhad Ahamed Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the concepts, theories, and practice of digital investigations and forensics. More specifically, it focuses on using a detailed hands-on approach to the use of computer technology in investigating and demonstrating that particular digital media contains incriminating evidence. With topics ranging from data acquisition, file systems examination, social media, email and network investigations, mobile and cloud forensics, a working knowledge of how to approach digital investigations and utilise various forensic tools to collect, analyse and present digital evidence will be gained. In this subject, digital investigations and forensics is covered from both a theory-based and applied understanding of how to recover admissible legal evidence after an incident, or proactively as a key defence to reduce the likelihood of cyber attacks. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFS 1002 AND
INFO 2001 OR
INFO 2004 Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of computer systems, architecture, infrastructure, internet protocols and networking protocols. A basic understanding of core theories related to social and cognitive psychology is desirable. Learning Outcomes Explain the process of digital investigations and forensics on digital media.
Design a proactive digital investigation process to detect and prevent exposure to cyber attacks in organisations.
Identify and recover key evidence from digital media using a variety of forensic tools.
Conduct and manage digital investigations and forensics involving digital media
Demonstrate an understanding of the ethical principles and practice for digital forensic investigators.
Present clear evidence and conclusions of a digital investigation in report form.
Define the methods, theories, and terms related to digital investigations and forensics. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 x 10 MCQ ea 10 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 30 N Group N  Practical 10 lab projects 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Farhad Ahamed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Minor (0326) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Other information Technology (INFO)