Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3030 Cyber Justice (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102529 Coordinator David Tait Opens in new window Description The world is being transformed by digital technologies.  The same technologies that make life more comfortable for some can unleash violence and destruction for others. Cyber war and cyber terrorism offer new risks for the international community. Bullying, identity theft and bank fraud, on a more local level, are given a new life in the cyber world.  Cyber technologies also provide enhanced opportunities for detecting and apprehending criminals, resolving disputes and modernising justice processes. New social spaces are opened up (social media networks, the 'dark web'), and new identities made possible (online grooming profile, avatars). How does the law keep up with the emergence of new crimes and technology-enhanced versions of old ones, and how do the cultural worlds of hackers, crackers and trackers work?  The subject examines how justice processes and spaces, as well as criminal networks and strategies, are being reimagined to take advantage of the new technologies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3015 - Cyber Law and Justice Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of second-year subjects in cultural and society, history and political thought, law, psychology or criminology would be useful, but are not required.  Experience of using social media would also be useful but not required. Learning Outcomes Describe the nature of cybercrime (including cyber terrorism and cyber war) and the techniques, targets and harms produced by it.
Describe the way cyber technologies are used in policing and courts to transform justice processes and respond to cybercrime.
Identify relevant media reports, research material, images and other relevant sources relevant to cybercrime and cyber justice.
Assess the quality of research about cybercrime and cyber justice in terms of its method, use of sources and contribution to academic debates.
Develop research ideas in a peer-supported learning environment.
Communicate research arguments logically and clearly in oral and written form.
Use digital technologies to collaborate, develop arguments and settle disputes. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 800 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 200 words 20 N Group N  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Cybersecurity Management, Testamur Major (T153) Equitable Technologies, Minor (0312) Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) Law (LAWS) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)