Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7013 Deep Foundations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301015 Coordinator Samanthika Liyanapathirana Opens in new window Description This subject covers advanced analysis and design criteria for deep foundations. Both statically and dynamically loaded deep foundations are covered including the site investigation methods and field testing methods adopted in practice for determining integrity and load carrying capacity. Appropriate computer software will be introduced to carry out the deep foundation design according to the Australian Standards. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Geotechnical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design piled raft foundations
Interpret and apply Australian standards for design of deep foundations
Identify pile load and integrity testing methods suitable for different conditions
Describe site investigation methods appropriate for different site conditions
Evaluate settlement, lateral deformation and load carrying capacity of deep foundations Subject Content 1. Site investigation
2. Analysis and design of deep foundations subjected to axial and lateral loading, according to Australian Standards.
3. Piled raft foundations
4. Design of deep foundations for seismically active regions
5. Pile load and integrity testing methods for Deep foundations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz (Online) 1 hour 20 N Individual   Design Project (Individual) 40 pages 30 Y Individual   Final exam 2 hour 50 Y Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)