Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7011 Building Engineering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300713 Coordinator Brendan Kirkland Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to provide students with an understanding of the factors that contribute to decisions in building design in respect of compliance with building regulations and standards. Topics include soil classification for construction, footing systems, loadings and their evaluation, structural materials and systems, structural behaviour and strength, and failure and rectification. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Services Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects CUVL5001 - Building Engineering
LGYB 8310 - Building Engineering Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: describe the underlying concepts of building engineering
explain the soil classification and its implication on footing systems
discuss loading and structural behaviour of various structural members and perform simple performance evaluation
carry out rudimentary review of designs for NCCA compliance
assess existing structures in terms of the acceptability of their performance.
apply various codes of practice related to structural engineering in assessing a design solution. Subject Content 1. Structural design actions: dead and live load, wind effect
2. Load combinations and Limit State Design
3. Soil classification and footing systems
4. Structural engineering concepts
5. Behaviour of structural materials
6. Reinforced concrete members and prestressed concrete
7. Structural timber members and connections
8. Structural steel members: beams, columns and tension members
9. Steel connections, frames and composite members Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 x 30 minutes 30 N Individual N  Report 4000 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Graduate Certificate in Building Surveying (3790) Graduate Diploma in Building Surveying (3789) Master of Building Surveying (3703)