Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2061 Teaching K-6: Pedagogies, Priorities and Capabilities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102749 Coordinator Paul Rooney Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The subject will develop students’ knowledge and skills for planning and teaching in K-6 classrooms using both the Cross-Curriculum Priority Areas (CPPA) through the incorporation of the seven General Capabilities (GC). The subject enables the delivery of learning area content focusing on key learning areas, HSIE and English at the same time as developing knowledge, understanding and skills relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and cultures, Asia and Australia’s engagement with Asia and/or Sustainability.  The subject will explore how Literacy, Numeracy, ICT capability and Critical and creative thinking are fundamental in students becoming successful lifelong learners whilst the areas of Personal and social capability, Ethical understanding, and Intercultural understanding focus on ways of being, behaving and learning to live with others, and taught through the HSIE and English learning areas. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1021 - Learning Teaching and Technologies Incompatible Subjects TEAC 2036 - Learning Futures and Curriculum Integration Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of the three CCPA’s: developing opportunities for inclusive narratives from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, Asia and Australia;s engagement with Aisia, and Sustainability . (Standard 2.4.1) [CLO 1; 2; 3] 
Identify and explain the ways different cultures, cultural stories and icons, are depicted in a range of multimodal texts to support teaching of CCPA’s in K-6 classrooms using HSIE and English.  (Standard 1.4.1; 2.4.1) [CLO 1; 2; 3]
Design resources for lessons, programs and school events to support students’ personal and social capability, ethical understanding, and intercultural understandings.
Evaluate social debates around the politics of representation presented in the CCPA’s. (Standards 1.4.1; 2.4.1) [CLO 1; 2; 3]
Examine the use of technology for teaching the General Capabilities. (Standard 2.6.1, 3.4.1, 3.5.1) [CLO 1; 2; 3]
Collaborate with colleagues in disciplinary and cross-disciplinary groupings in order to support personal learning about the role of the CCPA’s and General Capabilities. Subject Content Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and cultures, Asia and Australia’s engagement with Asia and/or Sustainability in K-6 classrooms 
Classroom technologies to support the teaching and learning linked to the cross curriculum priority areas (CCPAs)
Embedding CCPAs in the teaching and learning of English and/or Human Society & its Environments.
Culturally-responsive curriculum 
Theoretical and pedagogical understandings linked to the General Capabilities of Literacy, Numeracy, ICT capability, and Critical and creative thinking 
Ethical thinking in classrooms 
Social and intercultural capacities 
Critical numeracy and literacy skills related to media Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1.500 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 5-7 minutes 20 N Group Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Teacher Education (TEAC)