Academic Handbook Current Edition EDUC 1013 Sociology for Educators(WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mitchell Liddle Opens in new window Description This subject includes the study of society, culture, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, and social class. It explores sociological understandings of the impact of the social on individuals and how this influences education, knowledge, society, and change. The subject addresses the diverse needs of children in complex contexts. It will provide students with opportunities to reflect on universal assumptions often imposed on children, families, and communities, through applying analytical tools and developing their professional identity as critical reflexive educators. School Education Discipline Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1031 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify key sociological theories, range of theoretical approaches and tools for explaining the sociological dimensions of education and care.
Analyse the role and impact of political, economic, and social aspects of difference and how they have influenced sociological constructions of family, community, and schooling. 
Explain key concepts and theoretical approaches for exploring culture, community, class, identity, subjectivity, diversity, religion, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, power and agency. 
Examine the social construction of contemporary childhood and its influence on the changing nature of being a child in families, the community, and educational settings. 
Describe how social, historical, and cultural practices have impacted on the educational outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children.
Apply critical thinking skills to analyse contemporary teaching and learning based on sociological theories.
Construct and evaluate arguments by reference to appropriate sources and theory.
Analyse one’s own personal, physical, learning, and emotional needs to apply appropriate self-directed learning strategies. Subject Content Society and community, the political, economic, and social aspects of difference and community through historical and contemporary sociological understandings 
Concepts of subjectivity and identity as related to consciousness, agency, personhood, reality and relationship to how individuals are shaped by being in the world 
Understandings of culture, agency, power through theories of culture, diversity, postcolonial, feminism and social constructivism
Social class, levels of power and wealth 
Foundational concepts in the study of gender: identity, sexuality, family, religion, the body, cultural practices, and gender norms in light of contemporary gender theories
The social construction of childhood and the importance of examining contemporary and diverse childhoods and understanding children’s role in families, community and education.
Sociological perspectives on race, ethnicity, and shared cultures: practices, values, and beliefs of a group, cultural characteristics as objects of collective discrimination 
Impact of social and cultural practices on the educational outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students: their heritage and cultural practices including the invasion of their nation and intergenerational racism
The complexity of key concepts on the sociological dimensions of children’s education and care in a range of contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 400 words 15 N Individual N  Discourse Analysis 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Proposal 600 words 20 N Group N  Presentation 4 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Education (EDUC)