Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 3004 Architecture Studio - Rethinking the Sub-urban Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301199 Coordinator Angelo Korsanos Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce the concept of Sub-urban Transformation, where the architect is an agent of progress and change in the built environment. Students will learn to use architectural design techniques as a medium for speculation and advocacy in the public realm and in daily life of the city. Rethinking the Sub-urban will investigate domesticity at the scale of residential projects and communities. Students will be concurrently trained in the use of Building Information Modelling (BIM) as a means to develop project work and collaborate as they explore new ways of building the suburban fabric. Assessments will be project-based in real world scenarios and will incorporate sustainable strategies of design. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ARCH 2001 AND
ARCH 2002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3753 Bachelor of Architectural Design. Students not enrolled in 3753 who wish to enrol into this subject should have a 5.0 minimum GPA and are required to discuss with the Academic program Advisor. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design with an awareness and understanding of the material world in architecture, and how technological and environmental design involve the resourcing, configuration, and deployment of material in a variety of contexts.
Research, evaluate, and apply climatically responsive design technologies.
Apply the use conceptual thinking, analysis, precedent to inform design proposals in response to basic architectural programs, particularly in relation to an suburban context.
Integrate technical awareness in relation to basic structural and construction systems and their resulting material and organisational implications.
Proficiently use BIM software to effectively explore and represent architectural space and materials through modelling, rendering, and texturing.
Use BIM software to document and organise instructions for building assembly and for presentation of architectural ideas. Subject Content 1. Investigation of Suburban Spatial and Architectural design scenarios
2. Building Information Modelling (BIM)
3. Sustainable design techniques and strategies
4. Organisation of architectural programs and material assemblies
5. Graphic visualisation and literacy
6. Composition of spatial and material forms Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Construction Site Induction Safety “White Card” – must be obtained in Year 1 of the program. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Drawings and/or Models 20 N Group Y  Applied Project Drawings and Models 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3D Visualisations 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio 500 words, visual compendium 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Angelo Korsanos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Architectural Design (3753)