Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6003 Research Methods in the Creative Arts Credit Points 10 Coordinator John Encarnacao Opens in new window Description This subject investigates conceptual, theoretical and practice-based models used in Creative Arts Research. It introduces students to a variety of important methodologies, including empiricism, experimentation, practice-based research, performativity-as-method, and narrative inquiry. It also focuses on writing as a creative praxis that has an important relationship to all the creative arts. Methodologies will be explored through the analysis of various theoretical and conceptual models that are produced through and applied in creative work. The subject will include the production of a creative work, and a variety of strategies for analysing and documenting this and other creative work, including observation, participation, reflection, contextualisation and representation. The subject also examines the relationships between theory and practice, and it will look at the conditions under which creative arts research is produced, exploring its meanings, effects and affects. The subject is suitable for academic research students who intend to include some non-traditional research outcomes in their work. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of undergraduate degree and formal acceptance into the Master of Arts (Creative Arts). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Produce a creative work that reflects their creative aesthetic 
Identify practice-based, conceptual and theoretical models used in creative arts practice research
Evaluate creative arts practice as research
Interpret the objects of art in creative arts research
Explain the methods used by practitioners, theorists and empiricists in creative arts research
Produce a piece of exegetical writing as a draft for elements of the Masters project. Subject Content Students will produce a creative work that reflects their identified and chosen medium, choose methodologies and creative aesthetic, and read and discuss topics that include: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  Professional Task a) 3-6 minutes or 750-1,000 words, or equivalent, 15%  b) 6-12 minutes or 1,500-2,000 words or equivalent, 25% 40 N Individual N  Essay 2,500 words 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Creative Arts (CART)