Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7021 Primary Health Care and its Applications Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400412 Coordinator Kazem Razaghi Opens in new window Description This subject explores the impact and relevance of Primary Health Care in its context as a World Health Organization (WHO) strategy for achieving “Health for All”. It examines ways in which Primary Health Care, along with other significant WHO initiatives, including the ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ provides a framework for just and humane health care systems now and into the future. Opportunity for discussion of the complex factors that impact on the health status of populations is provided. Complex dimensions of health and well-being are explored, enabling students to inform health care practices and planning of programs that can lead to sustainable health within a primary health care framework. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. The subject is also available as a non-award subject in online mode. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critically analyse the principles, strategies and activities of primary health care linked to the World Health Organization’s quest for 'Health for All'  within local and global contexts. 2. Critically evaluate the congruence between primary health care principles and practices as they relate to local and national health care policies. 3. Critically explore the relationship between people’s health outcomes and the global, cultural, social, and socio-economic determinants of health and wellbeing. 4. Conduct a community needs assessment in the context of primary health care. 5. Devise an implementation plan for facilitating health related changes in organisations and       communities within a primary health care framework. Subject Content Definitions and meanings of health;
Social determinants of health and wellbeing;
Health policy orientation: welfare and privatised, concepts and values;
Primary Health Care principles and practices;
Health Promotion: issues and strategies for the promotion of health in a globalised context;
Approaches to health promotion including the use of media;
Community needs assessment; capacity building and healthy settings;
Projects for health. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 multiple choice questions 20 N Individual N  Short Answer 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Hong Kong Baptist - Autumn (2024) Hong Kong Baptist University On-site Subject Contact Kazem Razaghi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hong Kong Baptist - Spring (2024) Hong Kong Baptist University On-site Subject Contact Kazem Razaghi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kazem Razaghi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kazem Razaghi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hong Kong Baptist - Term 3 (2024) Hong Kong Baptist University On-site Subject Contact Kazem Razaghi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Nursing (Professional Studies) (exit only) (4737) Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (4723) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (Professional Studies) (exit only) (4736) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Master of Nursing (Professional Studies) (4735) Master of Primary Health Care (4694) Postgraduate Nursing, Major (0046) Public Health (PUBH) Tuberculosis Management, Testamur Major (T093)