Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7016 Principles of Vascular Sonography 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401294 Coordinator Donna Oomens Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the knowledge acquired in Principles of Vascular Sonography 1, via a blend of theoretical and practical activities. Students' knowledge of general pathology principles will be extended, and they will also cover the principles of coagulation and atherosclerotic disease. Aspects of ultrasound physics studies in this subject include identifying imaging artefacts, recognizing equipment limitations and bio-effects and safety. Basic vascular pharmacology is also covered. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7015 Co-requisite(s) RADI 7011 - Practice of Vascular Sonography Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4765 Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy, physiology and mathematics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Distinguish the abnormal anatomical features and pathological processes that contribute to specific vascular diseases (CLO 1)
Justify essential operational aspects of established and emerging ultrasound technologies to inform professional practice in vascular sonography (CLO 2)
Evaluate limitations in the acquisition of vascular images within the professional workplace to allow best practice in vascular sonography(CLO 3)
Apply safe practice principles in the performance of vascular sonography (CLO 6)
Analyse the roles and interactions of common cardiovascular medicines. (CLO 1) Subject Content - vascular pathophysiology I
1.???? Principles of pathology
2.???? Coagulation and clotting pathologies
3.???? Principles of atherosclerotic disease
4.???? Essential cardiovascular pharmacology
- Ultrasound physics II
1.???? Ultrasound instrumentation and equipment performance
2.???? Ultrasound artefacts
3.???? Bio-effects and safety Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 MCQs / 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Quiz 18 MCQs and 6 SAQ/60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 120 minutes 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography (4765) Radiography (RADI)