Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1031 The World of Sport Business Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201000 Coordinator Michelle O'Shea Opens in new window Description The World of Sport Business provides students with an entry to sport and its professional organisation and management. Sport organisations are uniquely situated within fluid and emergent social, cultural and political environments and necessitate unique/different managerial approaches which students begin to critically explore. Students will engage with key issues shaping the domestic and international sport management field including, but not limited to, sport professionalisation and commodification, globalisation and sport for development. Students will be introduced to sport governance and leadership theories, sport and its management as a context for ethical analysis, and approaches to sport marketing and promotions in the contemporary sport business context. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 1032 - The World of Sport Management Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand the unique/special features of sport and its contemporary management.
Identify the three sectors of sport (public, non-profit and professional)
Explain sport and sport organisations in broader social, cultural, and political contexts (domestic and international).
Recognise  management and leadership competencies 
Identify and deconstruct the developments shaping sport managerial futures Subject Content Australian sport history and early cultural influences/intersections with the contemporary context
What is sport management and why it is a unique managerial context 
Challenges and developments shaping contemporary sport managerial policy and practice [societal, cultural and political]
Governmental sport funding and policy 
Professional/commercial sport-ownership structures, finance, outcomes and effects
Sport managerial leadership theories and practice in contemporary sport contexts 
Change management complexities, processes, and practices
Diversity, equity and inclusion in sport organisations and allied contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1500 words 35 N Individual Y  Case Study 2500 words 30 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michelle O'Shea Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Business and Management (BUSM) Sport Development, Minor (0254) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303)