Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3058 Languages and Grammatical Concepts 3A: Chinese Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 101710 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description In 2013 this subject replaced by 101951 - Chinese 301. This is an advanced Level 3 language and linguistics subject for students of modern Chinese. Lectures for the grammatical concepts component are held in English for students of all languages while other activities are language-specific. The aim of the subject is twofold. On the one hand it aims, to develop a practical and theoretical understanding of the ways in which major concepts used in everyday speech and writing are mapped and organized in the lexicon and the grammar of human languages, and how these forms develop in learners and users. On the other hand, it aims to develop advanced comprehension and production skills in Chinese language, including higher stages optional structures, through critical examination of contemporary and historical text and discourse samples from a variety of registers. An understanding of traditional and contemporary Chinese culture and society is also fostered through comparative research projects on specific cultural, social and/or linguistic, aspects that are of interest to students. A range of CALL (Computer Assisted Language Learning) activities are utilised for this subject. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3020 - Chinese 301 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 0055 - Chinese 301 LGYA 1259 - Languages 303 Grammatical Concepts Across Languages Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of 40 credit points of Chinese Language at Level 2. Learning Outcomes Gained an understanding of languages families, main linguistic typologies and the collocation of Chinese within the Romance languages family;
acquired an understanding of key concepts and terminology in the study of lexical categories and sentence structure in the world languages with a specific focus on Chinese;
developed ways for identifying those lexico-grammatical concepts and through corpus analysis in Chinese compared to English and other languages;
identified canonical mappings of concepts to Chinese linguistic structure in contemporary and earlier historical texts using linguistic theory constructs and their own linguistic experience;
identified and learned to describe key areas of interface between pragmatically motivated language use and language structure reflecting on texts from different historical periods and critically using their own bilingual and/or multilingual experience;
attained a level of lexico-grammatical ability equivalent to stage 5 in productive skills and higher stages in reading comprehension; and
developed their understanding of aspects of Chinese culture and contemporary Chinese society, research and critical-thinking skills and ability to use such skills to investigate Chinese cultural or social issues and express their opinions. Subject Content Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022)