Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7014 Health, Wellbeing and Place Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102769 Coordinator Stephen Healy Opens in new window Description Planning for health and wellbeing is essential for ensuring human flourishing in our cities and regions. This subject investigates geographies of health, wellbeing and place through analysis of physical, mental and environmental health and spaces of wellbeing. Drawing on insights from geography, planning and related disciplines it asks how built environment professionals can create healthy futures through place making. Through local, national and international case studies the subject will explore how cities can be better designed to counter growing lifestyle epidemics, motivate active living and respond to the opportunities of population ageing and challenges of environmental change. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key health and wellbeing priorities facing planners nationally and internationally.
Identify relevant planning legislation and guidelines pertaining to health, wellbeing and place.
Identify and critically explain planning responses to health and wellbeing needs nationally and internationally.
Critically evaluate place-based responses to health and wellbeing in an Australian case study. Subject Content Physical health in the built environment
Environmental health and environmental justice
Planning for mental health
Spaces of Wellbeing
Geographies of disability
Geographies of ageing and dementia
Universal design
Planning for active cities
Therapeutic spaces Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 25 N Individual Y  Poster 500 words + images 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 Y Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Stephen Healy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Healthy Places) (1899) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Master of Planning (1712) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321)