Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3030 Specialisation Workshop 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301439 Coordinator Baolin Wang Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to further enhance technical skills development in a team environment and in an engineering discipline through additional workshops that compliment and strengthen those completed in previous subject Specialisation Workshop 1. The subject enables students to perform and manage the practical aspects that relate to product development, manufacturing, infrastructure development and service delivery. It also enables students to gain skills to plan, communicate, operate and manage workshops, laboratory settings and work sites while working in a team environment. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 3029 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Design engineering solutions by applying engineering fundamental principles, methods and tools to real world problems
Apply project management and engineering procedures and processes for engineering solution development and delivery
Implement safe work procedures in workshops, laboratory settings and work sites and in discussion with peers and the facilities team
Demonstrate collaboration skills in managing teamwork and team projects with respect for diversity and inclusiveness to achieve project outcomes
Communicate concepts, solutions and project outcomes clearly and ethically in a range of formats Subject Content Civil and Construction Engineering:
1.Civil and Construction Plant Operations
2.Infrastructure Construction and Maintenance (Roads, Bridges, Pipes, etc.)
3.Supply Industry Operations
Electrical and Robotics & Mechatronics:
1.Electrical Systems Engineering
2.Switchgear and Control gear
3.Outdoor Power Equipment Technology
Mechanical and Robotics and Mechatronics:
1.Electrical machinery, mechanical principles and mechanical equipment
2.Refrigeration and Air-conditioning
3.Automotive Technology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer Approx. 1000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Practical Approx. 1000 words or equivalent
(per submission) 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes, Group Presentation 15 N Group/Individual N  Report Approx. 3000 words or equivalent 25 N Group/Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Baolin Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Baolin Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)