Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7111 Project Management Frameworks and Methods Credit Points 10 Coordinator Samudaya Nanayakkarawasam Opens in new window Description The subject introduces frameworks, methods, approaches, and best practices employed in project management. From PMBoK, PRINCE2 to Agile, students will delve into each approach's advantages and challenges. Students will be equipped with the knowledge, skills and competencies to navigate diverse projects successfully. Students will also gain practical insights and develop decision-making skills through real-world cases and scenarios across various industries and domains. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Project Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MGMT 7003 AND
BUSM 7064 AND
BLDG 7013 AND
BUSM 7082 AND
BUSM 7090 AND
BUSM7097 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3752 Master of Project Management or 3786 Graduate Diploma in Project Management Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Critically evaluate and apply a range of frameworks, methods, and best practices in project management with a focus on the impact of projects on the environment and people.
2. Apply PRINCE2 and Agile in a project environment at practitioner’s level. 
3. Deliver products in a complex project environment by selecting and applying appropriate project management framework and methods.
4. Collaborate in a high-performance team environment to achieve project outcomes.
5. Communicate project management related matters to a diverse audience effectively and succinctly, aiming to promote engagement and encourage practice adoption. Subject Content Project Management Frameworks and Methods Overview
Portfolio, Program and Project (P3) model, project methods and frameworks
PRINCE2 Principles, People, Practices and Processes 
Agile frameworks, concepts and practices
Establishing a high performing project team 
Developing products in a project environment at a practitioner level Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection Weekly 10 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 15 N Individual N  Applied Project 3000 words 30 N Group N  Presentation 5 minutes 15 N Individual N  Quiz 2.5 hours 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Samudaya Nanayakkarawasam Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Diploma in Project Management (3786) Master of Project Management (3752)