Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 3006 Festivals and Events Credit Points 10 Coordinator Willem Coetzee Opens in new window Description This subject explores the complexities of planning and managing major festivals and events. Students will gain an appreciation of the benefits festivals and events can provide for communities and visitor economies, as well as the challenges and risks they present. The subject will also cover a variety of other aspects, including: marketing, branding, sustainability, place-making, access, equity and security/policing. Students will be encouraged to attend events and festivals over the course of the semester, and experts will be invited to provide ‘real-world’ case-studies. The major assessment allows students to draw on the knowledge and skills they are developing to propose their own major festival/event. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points of study. Learning Outcomes Analyse the role of festivals and events, including their relationship to tourism.
Evaluate the benefits and challenges that festivals and events present to communities and visitor economies.
Critically appraise festival and event practices.
Work individually and in teams to present their ideas orally and in written forms.
Propose festivals and/or events to an expert audience. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes (500 words equivalent, per group member) 20 N Group N  Proposal 1000 words per group member 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Willem Coetzee Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Festival and Event Management, Major (0306) Festival and Event Management, Minor (0306) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303) Tourism (TOUR)