Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2023 Engaging in Early Childhood Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102673 Coordinator Jane Athota Opens in new window Description This subject incorporates 20 days of professional experience in an early childhood setting.  Prior to external practicum work, students engage in intensive on campus coursework. The fieldwork introduces students to work in early childhood contexts while the coursework prompts students to reflect on the nature of early childhood teaching, their role as teachers in teaching and learning, the frameworks that guide practice and contemporary issues related to teaching young children. Students also apply skills in observation-based assessment of children's interests, development, dispositions and learning, explore curriculum decision making based on their assessments of learning and development and other strategies to facilitate children's engagement, learning and development. Students will immerse themselves in the setting and demonstrate capacity to work effectively with children Birth – 5 years. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood),1929 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) or 6048 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary). Students must have completed 80 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Describe the relationships between elements of the National Quality Framework.  
Articulate the implications of positioning children as active social agents for teaching and learning. 
Interact with children in ways that support children’s sense of identity and wellbeing , build relationships and extend learning
Apply understanding of health, safety and nutrition practices in work with children
Assess and document children’s interests, development, dispositions and learning using a range of techniques consistent with the outcomes of the Early Years Learning Framework. 
Design learning experiences that promote engagement and reflect children’s interests, development and funds of knowledge. 
Demonstrate initiative, responsibility, professional communication skills and ethical practice, as an educator. Subject Content Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,200 words 40 Y Individual Y  Presentation 18 slides 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jane Athota Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Jane Athota Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jane Athota Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Teacher Education (TEAC)