Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2034 Human Systems Physiology 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301269 Coordinator Ben Perry Opens in new window Description This subject builds upon the core concepts and terminology introduced in foundational physiology, focussing on the function of body organ systems, exploring the knowledge of how these organ systems are regulated, integrated, and function within the human body. The focus will be on the muscular, nervous, cardiovascular, respiratory and endocrine organ systems. Students will collect, interpret and analyse data to develop an understanding of the physiological responses of the human body. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1009 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1 Incompatible Subjects BIOS 1025 - Introduction to Physiology
BIOS1022 - Introduction to Human Biology Restrictions Must have passed 60 cp Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the physiological processes of the muscular, nervous, cardiovascular, respiratory, and endocrine systems.
Describe the physiological processes of muscle contraction in skeletal, smooth, and cardiac muscle.
Describe the component parts of the nervous and endocrine systems, and their roles in the processes of homeostasis and regulation of other organ systems.
Identify  the independent functions of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems, and their co-dependence for delivery of oxygen and clearance of metabolic products.
Critically discuss data from laboratory activities and concepts from in-class activities. Subject Content Muscle physiology
Neurophysiology
Cardiovascular system
Respiratory system
Endocrine system Special Requirements Essential equipment All students are required to have and wear closed-toed shoes, laboratory coat and safety glasses when working in the Physiology laboratory spaces. Students need to complete and provide evidence of an online WHS induction quiz before entering the first practical class. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15 minutes 15 N Individual N  Participation Duration of practical class (2 hrs) 10 N Group N  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 3-5 minutes 15 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Ben Perry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ben Perry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)