Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 1019 Visual Storytelling (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700183 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description Visual storytelling is increasingly being used in a variety of contexts including websites, magazines, advertising, business and public affairs, exhibitions and events and television, often working across a number of platforms at the same time as requiring responsive design approaches for a diversity of viewing experiences. With access to increasing amounts and types of data communicators need to be able to extract meaning to connect with a variety of different audiences in creative, dynamic and emotional ways. This subject introduces students to story archetypes, structure and flow. This practical subject explores a range of traditional hands-on techniques and digital software commonly used across the communications sector.  Students are encouraged to explore and develop their own mark and image making skills aimed at specific target audiences and communication contexts. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year Two units Equivalent Subjects DESN 1018 - Visual Storytelling LGYB 0479 - Design Thinking (UWSC) DESN 1005 - Design Thinking Assumed Knowledge Basic written English skills. Learning Outcomes Articulate understanding of the role of visual storytelling for exploring the relationship between content and context.
Evaluate visual communication contexts to identify principles and structures for visual storytelling.
Apply visual storytelling approaches using a range of digital media applications.
Apply visual approaches to generate relevant findings as storytelling outcomes for given briefs.
Articulate understanding of the role of visual storytelling for exploring the relationship between content and context. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1,250 words (600 words research responses, 650 words equivalent in visual  presentation work.)
 45 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,250 words 45 N Individual N  Quiz 50 words in total over 5 weeks (Each quiz is equivalent to 50 words in total and it consists of 20 questions in total) 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Communication (exit only) (7043) Diploma in Communication Extended - Communication (7148) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009) Diploma in Design (exit only) (7044) Diploma in Design Extended - Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (7153) Diploma in Design Extended - Visual Communication (7152) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6013) Graphic and Design (DESN) Other information Technology (INFO)