Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2071 Knowledge Journeys Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800240 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. It examines sources of knowledge and how we learn. Students are supported to approach new knowledge as a journey of developing skills as independent, life-long, self-directed learners. Analysis of knowledge journeys of others, using creative enquiry, and Indigenous learning techniques, are key learning activities in the unit. A focus on knowledge and research journeys, rather than 'outcomes' alone, facilitates learning from mistakes in seeking solutions to real world problems. Fundamental research approaches will be considered and applied in the subject. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 2045 - Research Stories Restrictions Students taking the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must have completed at least 40 credit points in their base degree, achieved a minimum GPA of 5.0, and must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Students who are taking the unit as an elective or part of the advanced degrees, must have completed at least 40 credit points and achieved a minimum GPA of 5. Enrolment in the unit is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of the Academic Program. Learning Outcomes 1. Analyse knowledge journeys from different disciplinary perspectives.
2. Explain theories of learning, different types of learning, sources of knowledge, perception, and Aboriginal learning techniques.  
3. Develop a framework for growing as life-long independent learner. 
4.Apply techniques used in this unit to produce a research narrative. 
5. Evaluate mistakes made during knowledge journeys. Subject Content 1. Life-long, self-directed, self-regulated learning skills and approaches. 
2.  Sources of learning and techniques for creative enquiry. 
3. Aboriginal learning techniques and learning as a process. 
4. Knowledge journeys and learning from failure. 
5. Research narratives and story-telling. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Critical and Systems Thinking, Minor (0287) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)