Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 2016 Creativity, Design Thinking and Visualisation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800237 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description This cross-disciplinary subject allows students to explore their creative potential and broaden their perspectives of innovation, through the lens of design thinking. Design thinking offers a range of strategic and practical approaches to creativity and innovation, including making use of different 'types of thinking and reflection; leveraging the dynamics of teamwork; and how conversation and dialogue can generate new thinking about complex problems. Students will apply these key ideas methodologies form design thinking and methods of visual communication, to addressing broad social issues in innovative and creative ways. School Social Sciences Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects DESN2002 - Creativity Innovation and Design Thinking Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their course with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this unit. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Enrolment in the unit for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate broad and contemporary knowledge of creativity and its influences on sustainability focused design.
Discuss design thinking approaches through the dimensions of creativity and innovativeness.
Apply design thinking principles and methodologies to create innovative solutions to challenges  in interdisciplinary environments.
Apply visual communication techniques to communicate complexity. Subject Content Principles of design thinking
Brainstorming and reverse brainstorming.
Approaches to mapping in design thinking: empathy mapping, ecosystem mapping, journey mapping.
Applying design thinking in cross disciplinary environments
Creativity, design thinking and innovation.
Visual means for communicating complexity: the golden ratio, posters, infographics, and colour themes. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 10 pages
(700 words)
 35 N Individual Y  Applied Project 10 pages
(700 words)
 35 N Individual Y  Portfolio 10 pages
(700 words)
 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Social Science (Advanced) (1733) Creative Leadership, Minor (0286) Graphic and Design (DESN)