Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1042 Mathematics for the Digital World (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Michael Casey Opens in new window Description In the ever-evolving field of information and communications technology, a strong grasp of mathematics can set you apart. This subject is designed to equip aspiring ICT professionals with a solid mathematical foundation. You will explore algebraic and trigonometric problem-solving and explore number systems crucial to computing and programming applications. Through a combination of inductive and deductive reasoning, you will gain the skills to develop and apply problem-solving strategies across a range of contexts in the field. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Select and apply arithmetic and algebraic techniques to solve computational problems. 
Utilise trigonometry, coordinate systems, matrices, and determinants in computing applications. 
Interpret and apply various number systems as well as modular arithmetic in computing contexts. 
Demonstrate an understanding of elementary sets, probability, and functions including computing algorithms and data structures. 
Utilise inductive and deductive reasoning to develop and apply problem-solving strategies within computing environments. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report a) 350 words (or equivalent) b) 500 words (or equivalent) 35 N Individual N  Applied Project 1200 words or equivalent 35 N Individual N  Viva Voce 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Mathematics (MATH)