Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 4004 Construction Technology 6 (Services) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300725 Coordinator Baolin Wang Opens in new window Description To provide students with a vehicle to develop knowledge and skills needed to comprehend the design of services in major buildings, and in so doing engender a life-long interpretation of the intricacies of physical installation and their critical sequence in the construction process. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Services Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5400 Construction Technology 6 (Services) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Construction Management, Bachelor of Engineering, Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours), Bachelor of Building Design Management, Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) or Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret and apply pragmatic decision making as it applies to the role of a construction professional in the design, installation and management of major building services
Differentiate between the concept of building services coordination and building services integration Subject Content This subject provides students with an introduction to design, installation and management of these services:
1. Mechanical (heating, ventilation and air conditioning)
2. Electrical (transformation, reticulation and safety devices)
3. Hydraulic (water supply, storage and distribution, sanitary plumbing and fittings)
4. Active fire systems (sprinklers and detectors)
5. Communication and security systems
6. Vertical transportation services (elevators and escalators) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 1 hour 25 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 1 hour 25 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL)