Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7007 Advanced Timber Structures Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301009 Coordinator Fidelis Mashiri Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to gain an in-depth knowledge into timber structures based on Australian Standards. Design of timber beams, floors, columns and connections will be introduced with a focus on the use of plywood, round timbers, glue-laminated timber and structural laminated veneer lumber. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Civil Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret the properties of sawn timber and manufactured wood products that influence their strength as a construction materials.
Apply limit state design concepts for timber elements and whole structures
Determine design loads and analyse timber structures to evaluate internal design action effects
Design timber elements based on evaluated design action effects Subject Content 1. Characteristics, grading and use of timber for structural design
2. Design of tension members
3. Design of Compression members
4. Design of members in flexure
5. Design of members under combined action
6. Design of connections Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 10 pages per assignment 20 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Fidelis Mashiri Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)