Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3095 Indonesian 301 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102773 Coordinator Anna Nettheim Opens in new window Description This is an advanced (Level 3) subject in the Indonesian Specialisation. It focuses on the Indonesian language styles and vocabulary appropriate for academic purposes. Students will learn formal language through reading authentic materials, engaging in open discussion, and writing on topics related to Indonesian culture, language, and other historic and current issues in an academic manner. Students will develop their formal writing skills in Indonesian and will learn how to discuss academic subjects in a formal style. They will begin to develop their ability to translate Indonesian and English texts in a formal manner. They will also develop intercultural awareness by comparing and contrasting academic styles and contexts in Australia and Indonesia. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3039 - Indonesian 301 Indonesian for Academic Purposes Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of Indonesian 202 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Communicate in Indonesian orally and in writing using all major sentence constructions.
Identify and use appropriate formal styles for effective oral and written communication.
Use and interpret original Indonesian texts to better understand Indonesian society and communicate effectively at a high level about a range of topics.
Compare and contrast academic writing in English and Indonesian and identify cultural differences.
Undertake basic independent research in Indonesian.
Undertake simple translation tasks. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summaries/Short Answer: Summary of unit Readings x 5 and Practice writing and translation tasks x 4 1,000 words equivalent 20 N Individual   Essay: 2 x Indonesian short writing tasks  500 words each (20% each) 40 N Individual   Translation Task 350 words 20 N Individual   Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)