Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7163 Investigations: Sustainability, Science and Technology Credit Points 10 Coordinator Lesley Gough Opens in new window Description This subject explores the place of science, technology and sustainability in the Early Years Learning Framework, the Australian Curriculum and relevant syllabuses. It will focus on scientific and technological pedagogical content knowledge appropriate for teaching science and technology. The subject will explore the importance of Aboriginal ways of knowing in science using culturally sensitive pedagogies. Within the subject there is significant emphasis on developing scientific inquiry skills and computational and systems thinking in applying technology. The subject supports confident, curious, creative and imaginative life-long learners to inquire, discover and think critically to develop sustainable ideas and solutions using digital and design technologies. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7099 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years) or 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary). Learning Outcomes Critically reflect on personal understandings and misconceptions of science and technology concepts and pedagogies
Analyse the curriculum frameworks and research underpinning the development of science and technology knowledge and understanding from early childhood through to primary school years.
Explain central concepts in sustainability, science and technology and the development of these ideas for children from Birth to 12 years of age.
Evaluate a range of research-based strategies, effective pedagogical practices and resources suitable for introducing scientific inquiry and design learning including Aboriginal ways of knowing into early childhood and primary school environments.
Design sequenced learning experiences that incorporate responsive teaching practices and intertwine the nature of environmental, social, economic, political and cultural sustainability as they relate to early childhood and primary science and technology education. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2,000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Campbell, C., Jobling, W., & Howitt, C. (2021). Science in early childhood (4th ed.). Cambridge University Press Fleer, M (2023). Technologies for children. Cambridge University Press Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Lesley Gough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Lesley Gough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Teacher Education (TEAC)