Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 2011 Object Oriented Analysis (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window Description The core strength of this subject is to analyse and model business objectives and critical requirements of software systems to be developed using object-oriented (OO) approaches. The system analysis is taken to greater depths within the context of object orientation.  The Unified Modelling Language version 2.0 (notably use cases, activity diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams) is used as a modelling standard for creating OO models in the problem space.  The subject also covers the rational unified process methodology and applications of design patterns for software development through practical case studies. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Systems Analysis and Design Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 7004 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Fast Track 7005 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology 7067 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended 7134 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended – ICT 7138 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT 7139 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended 7140 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems 7163 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology 6035 DiplomaBachelor of Information and Communications Technology 6036 Diploma in Information and Communications TechnologyBachelor of Information Systems 6039 DiplomaBachelor of Information and Communications Technology and 6040 Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Bachelor of Information Systems must pass INFS 1007 Systems Analysis and Design before enrolling in this unit Equivalent Subjects INFS 2006 Object Oriented Analysis MATH 2013 Object Oriented Analysis (WSTC) Restrictions Assumed Knowledge General understanding of what an information system is and how information systems development is undertaken and Introductory knowledge about system analysis and design, including
- basic problem solving experience in computerised information systems
- ability to derive systems requirements from problem definitions
- ability to produce system models using process, data, object and network modelling.
- understanding design and implementation issues include, (but may not be limited to), elementary database design, input, output and user interface design and prototyping. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the theoretical fundamentals underpinning Object Oriented Analysis.
Identify Unified Modelling Language (UML) of the Object Management Group (OGM) for analysing software requirements,
Outline an object oriented lifecycle and explain the process of object oriented analysis, especially within the context of iterative and incremental nature of the process,
Apply the iterative and adaptable process frame work of RUP in software development
Construct well-documented UML-based artefacts from the early phases of the development process for the case study,
Construct the Model of the Problem Space based on the analysis in an industrial CASE tool,
Apply team work skills in a small development team, including: distributing the development workload, resolving disputes, running meetings, and taking minutes,
Identify and create operational (non functional) requirements of a system including performance and security,
Develop a report based on verbal and written instructions about the performance of software development tasks and associated administrative duties,
Illustrate quality assurance, quality control and user-expectations via reports and theoretical explanation.
Explore possibilities of applying design patterns in software design. Subject Content 1. The concepts of Object Orientation including the fundamentals, processes and application of the concepts to practical modelling and object-oriented analysis techniques,
2. Three modelling spaces: Problem, Solution and Background; Roles in Requirement Analysis,
3. Critical Requirement Analysis and Business Evaluation to arrive at high-level requirements and their prioritisation,
4. Package Diagrams and high-level slicing of packages as sub-systems,
5. Four phases of Rational Unified Process (RUP): Inception, Elaboration, Construction and Transition
6. Documenting Actors and Use Cases,
7. Introduction to Use Case Diagrams, Use Case Notations, Relationships, Analysis & Testing,
8. Activity Diagrams as mechanisms to document the flow of the system/use case,
9. Class Notations and definition of a class including attributes and operations,
10. Documenting Class Diagram and Relationships between various classes such as Association and Inheritance,
11. Documenting Sequence Diagrams and the persistence design with Class and Sequence Diagrams,
12. Major Ingredients and Creation of State Chart Diagrams,
13. Prototypes and Operational (Non-Functional) Requirements including Performance, Scalability, Security & Volume,
14. Quality assurance, management and testing aspects of a system,
15. Emerging technologies and design.
16. Introduction to Creational, Structural and Behavioural design patterns. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 10 marked sessions x 1.0% each
Approx. 2 hours each 10 N Individual N  Quiz 90 mins 15 N Individual N  Applied Project 30-40  hours each member  25 N Group N  Report 2 hrs 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Buddhima De Silva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7163) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Fast Track (7004) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Information Systems (INFS) Mathematics (MATH)