Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1027 The Individual in Society (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the main theoretical perspectives for understanding the “individual in society”, including humanistic, biological, cognitive, behavioural and socio-cultural explanations of individual behaviour. These perspectives are further understood through application of the “levels of analysis” framework. The content then moves on to social psychology and covers topics such as self and identity, attitudes and attitude change, conformity and obedience, prejudice and discrimination, aggression, pro-social behaviour, and attraction and close relationships. Students explore the relevance of these topics to everyday life and contemporary issues. School Social Sciences Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 1021 - The Individual in Society
BEHV 1023 - The Individual in Society (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Course 7170 – Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to Identify the major perspectives in psychology and key social psychological theories and concepts.
Summarise levels of analysis and selected social psychological theories and concepts.
Apply key theories and concepts to everyday life and contemporary issues. Subject Content Major perspectives in psychology
Levels of analysis framework
Self and identity
Attitudes and attitude change
Prejudice and discrimination and inter-group behaviour
Social influence
Aggression and pro-social behaviour
Attraction and close relationships
Language, communication and culture Online Learning Requirements Students will require a computer with a reliable internet connection, webcam and microphone in order to access learning activities and resources in the unit vUWS site Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Reflection Part A - 500 words 15 N Individual N  Reflection Part B - 1000 words 25 N Individual N  Portfolio 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Griffin, T. (Ed.). (2016). The individual in society (3rd ed.). North Ryde: McGraw-Hill.
 https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/wsudt/detail.action?docID=4770233 Note that this is a free e-textbook for students enrolled in The Individual in Society.
The link takes you to the Library repository for this e-textbook. Teaching Periods Block B Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block C Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block D Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block F Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health (7170)