Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 3009 Agricultural Technology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301449 Coordinator Ryan Mcquinn Opens in new window Description Agricultural Biotechnology is rapidly developing and this subject will assure you the knowledge and skills that contribute to the future of sustainable food production.  The subject material integrates agronomic principles with current and emerging biotechnology, highlighting issues and solutions based around case studies.  This approach facilitates an analytical framework that goes beyond traditional production systems including eco-farming, life-cycle and regenerative agriculture, along with development of innovative and integrated production and waste systems.  Key concepts include sustainable resource use, nitrogen balance, energy efficiency, and greenhouse gas emissions and market analysis. School Science Discipline Agriculture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the key determinants of biotechnology in agricultural production systems.
Critically evaluate the impact of biotechnology on sustainable food production systems.
Articulate the pathways to incorporate biotechnology into agriculture.
Analyse the role of technology in regenerative and sustainable agriculture systems.
Apply analytical principles to develop emerging agriculture enterprises. Subject Content 1. New and emerging biotechnology in agriculture.
2. Sustainable food production systems.
3. Biotechnology in eco-farming, lifecycle and regenerative agriculture.
4. Innovation pathways in plant and animal production.
5. Technology applications in regenerative and sustainable agricultural production.
6. Systems and market analysis of emerging Agrifood enterprises. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 3 x 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  Viva Voce 2x 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Proposal 3000 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Ryan Mcquinn Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185)