Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1038 Literacy and Numeracy for Educators Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102794 Coordinator Robert Mcintosh Opens in new window Description The primary purpose of this subject is to equip first-year students with personal literacy and numeracy skills necessary for their academic success. This subject aims to develop students’ personal literacy and numeracy skills necessary for participating in academic and professional contexts. It also supports pre-service teachers as literate and numerate citizens to strengthen positive attitudes, skills, and knowledge about literacy and numeracy roles in everyday contexts. Students will have opportunities to develop their interpersonal, verbal and non-verbal communication skills. These skills are integral to the inherent requirements of a graduate teacher who are required to undertake the national literacy and numeracy test mandated by the Australian Government. Pre-service teachers will develop confidence and competence in their understanding of the roles of literacy and numeracy in society, with particular emphasis on problem-solving and effective communication in practical situations. Students will be provided with opportunities to develop critical self-awareness, self-regulation and the ability to organise oneself as a self-directed learner. Essential elements of academic scholarship, including information media literacy, understanding assessment, and academic integrity, will be developed. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1876 B Education (Primary), 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education or 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop personal literacy and numeracy skills and attitudes in academic and other contexts;
Demonstrate professional digital competence effectively and creatively for learning and assessment purposes;
Apply critical reading and writing skills that are appropriate to academic situations;
Apply critical numeracy skills to make discerning decisions about how to use mathematical knowledge and skills purposefully;
Evaluate and manage resources that are relevant to specific inquiry areas;
Use effective communication strategies to interact with individuals and groups for a range of purposes and audiences;
Analyse specific assessment requirements and implement effective task and time management strategies;
Recognise the importance of integrity to demonstrate respect, responsibility and honesty in academic scholarship. Subject Content 1. Personal literacy and numeracy skills and attitudes in contemporary contexts
2. Professional digital competence
3. Critical reading and writing
4. Mathematics and critical numeracy skills in solving real-world, practical problems
5. The literate and numerate learner as an effective communicator and problem solver with a focus on creative, intercultural and critical thinking
6. Task and time management
7. Academic Integrity Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 500 Words  20 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words reflection with a 3-minute digital story 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Robert Mcintosh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Robert Mcintosh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Robert Mcintosh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Robert Mcintosh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1878) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Other Education (EDUC) Teacher Education (TEAC)