Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2014 Editing and Publishing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102435 Coordinator Felicity Castagna Opens in new window Description What makes a good editor? How do editing and publishing work in Australia and the wider market? This subject provides an introduction to basic skills required when editing texts for publication, and a survey of key issues confronting literary publishing in Australia. Skills in editing and an understanding of Australian publishing are valuable assets for students of creative writing. They are also relevant to industry-based work in a range of related fields such as advertising, public relations and journalism. This subject will focus on three areas: the practice of editing, modes of publishing, and the economics of writing and publishing. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge Students will be expected to have undergraduate first year level reading and writing skills. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply key concepts and techniques of editing for publication ? such as using drafting and editing to improve the quality of written works;
Understand the roles and responsibilities of the literary editor;
Compare and analyse different modes, genres and processes of publication;
Develop a critical understanding of the economics of writing and publishing, and how these operate in diverse reading environments;
Recognise and understand changing relationships between authors, publishers and readers;
Recognise ways in which different cultural contexts can shape and influence the publishing process. Subject Content 1. An overview of Australian literary publishing
2. Literary trends, issues and controversies
3. The writer as change maker and literary activist
4. Introduction to three kinds of publishing – commercial, literary and digital
5. The writer and popular culture
6. Economics of writing and publishing
7. The writer in the age of social media
8. Some examples of the relationship between writer and publisher
9. The role of literary magazines, festivals and collectives Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical: Editing Task 500 words 20 N Individual   Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual   End-of-session exam: Take home exam 1,500 words (2 x 750 word short answers) 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Language and Literature (LANG)