Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7001 Applied Methods in Literary Studies and Creative Writing Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102220 Coordinator Felicity Castagna Opens in new window Description From Autumn 2023, this subject is replaced by CART 6005 - Creative Methods in Research. This subject familiarises students with methods of pursuing and presenting research across the discipline of literary studies as well as with regard to the kinds of research required for undertaking creative writing. It further provides students with the opportunity to explore these methods in their own research or creative practice. The subject is comprised of specific training exercises, which will enable students to develop the research skills necessary to developing for their masters project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects HUMN 4009 - Research Design 1 Theories of Enquiry HUMN 4010 - Research Design 2 Practices of Research Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1797 or 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Write at a high level in a range of critical and creative forms
Locate, assess and use appropriate critical resources
Recognise and reflect on the significance of literary texts in imagining and interpreting the world
Construct coherent, evidence-based arguments of literary scholarship
Identify the range of methods used to produce good quality work of creative writing. Subject Content This subject will offer an overview of:
1. methods of research and practice particular to literary studies
2. methods of research and practice particular to creative writing
3. the publishing scene in Australia and internationally
4. the literary critical scene in Australia and internationally
5. the impact of writing in Western Sydney, Greater Sydney and nationally
6. how research can direct the practice of writing
7. how the practice of writing can inform research
8. how engaging with techniques and exercises can develop both critical and creative practice
9. how examining the works of particular writers can open up an understanding of writing practice
10. an understanding of the value of literature and its role in society Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 1,200 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,200 words 30 N Individual N  Participation 4 weeks 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Creative Arts (CART)