Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1035 Australian Indigenous Languages Revitalisation Credit Points 10 Coordinator Corina Norman Opens in new window Description Where do iconic Australian words and place names come from? Words like koala, waratah, kangaroo, Parramatta belong to the original languages of Australia. We all know a few words like this, but we often don't know much about the languages to which they belong. In this subject you will learn about the current revitalisation of Australian Indigenous languages that reflect national and international movements of decolonisation recognising the rich knowledges, cultures and histories of First Nations peoples.  Students - Indigenous, non-Indigenous Australian and international students alike - will have the opportunity to learn from the achievements of Indigenous people who are actively revitalising the languages of south-eastern Australia. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Australian Indigenous Languages Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Define key concepts and considerations in language revitalisation;
Describe examples of language revitalisation internationally;
Discuss the diversity that exists within and between Indigenous Australians and their languages in relation to Australian history from colonisation to the present;
Describe the basis for language revitalisation from archival and community sources; 
Identify key characteristics of Indigenous Australian languages, linguistic similarities and differences and spelling systems;
Appraise own understanding of new knowledge related to Indigenous Australian languages and peoples, and their language revitalisation achievements, particularly across south-eastern Australia. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15 minutes in Week 3 25 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minute in-class presentation in Weeks 9-12 plus 1000-word written summary 35 N Individual N  Applied Project 5 minutes 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Indigenous Australian Studies, Major (0015) Indigenous Australian Studies, Minor (0015) Language and Literature (LANG)