Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 6005 International Banking and Finance Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tony Nehme Opens in new window Description This subject compares the international financial system and capital markets to the Australian financial system in the context of the banker customer relationship, commercial lending and security. The subject also introduces students to key international legal issues that are relevant to international banking and securities practice. Finally, students will examine transactional practice in the context of transactions with an international element to it. School Law Discipline Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7060 Law of Associations OR LAWS 7010 Company Law Equivalent Subjects LAWS 7016 International Banking and Finance Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program from the School of Law. Students enrolled in other programs must obtain permission to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Critically evaluate the key concepts, policies and issues on defined topics
Apply relevant legal concepts and aspects of policy analysis to solve practical problems and theoretical legal issues in a clear, logical and effective way
Present policy-based positions on issues relating to banking and finance, and bank and financial services regulation
Demonstrate information literacy and research skills through accessing, evaluating and applying relevant information in relation to international banking and securities law
Reflect on the value of ethical conduct as a professional in work and in civic life. Subject Content The Australian financial system and capital markets compared to selected case studies in relation to the international banking and finance system, including: Banker-customer relationship. Lending. Guarantees and indemnities. Security. Financial instruments. Key Legal concepts for structured finance. Securitisation. Covered Bonds. Derivatives Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Proposal 1000 words plus 15 minute oral presentation 25 N Individual N  Essay 3500 words 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Finance and Tax Law, minor (0344) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)