Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 1002 Digital Systems 1 (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700240 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a solid background in digital logic design which is foundational to the fields of electrical and computer engineering. Digital logic design involves building electronic components and hardware, such as circuit boards and microchip processors. Students are first introduced to the fundamentals of digital logic, basic logic devices and Boolean algebra. This is followed by analysis and design of combinational and sequential logic circuits.Offerings of alternate subjects are dependent on there being sufficient student enrolment numbers. If enrolments are low, the College may cancel delivery of the alternate subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Communications Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1010 Equivalent Subjects ELEC 1001 - Digital Systems 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering Assumed Knowledge Knowledge on basic principles of analysing an electric circuit, Kirchhoff's Voltage and Current laws and their use in electric circuits and concept of operational amplifier and its circuit would be desirable. Learning Outcomes Describe basic digital concepts and the operation of basic logic gates.
Apply Boolean algebra to a range of logic expressions.
Apply Karnaugh maps to a range of logic expressions.
Analyse and design combinational logic circuits.
Describe the operation of a range of memory devices.
Describe the principles of analogue-to-digital and digital-to-analogue conversion schemes.
Describe the basic concepts of microcontrollers.
Describe the basic concepts and the basic operations of Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs). Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes eac 10 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours each 20 N Group/Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)