Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2012 Nutrition and Health 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300933 Coordinator Sunil Panchal Opens in new window Description Nutrition is the science that applies knowledge of the nutritional components of foods to ensure the wellbeing of the human body. This subject presents the basic principles and concepts of human nutrition including nutrient requirements, functions, deficiency symptoms and the effects of dietary excess as well as energy balance and weight control. Students will gain a general understanding of the macronutrients such as carbohydrates, proteins and lipids in human metabolism, energy release and common diseases and disorders such as obesity, malnutrition, diabetes etc. The role of water and electrolytes in cellular and tissue functions, as well as alcohol metabolism and its impact on human health will be covered. The micronutrients are also studied, including the properties, general requirements, functions and the effects of deficiency and excess consumption of vitamins and essential minerals. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HLTH 2011 - Nutrition and Health 1 Assumed Knowledge Sound understanding of undergraduate Level 1 chemistry and biology. Learning Outcomes Understand and evaluate the role of nutrition in human health.
Demonstrate an understanding of nutrient intake requirements and recommended dietary allowances.
Demonstrate an understanding of the human digestive system and the metabolism of macro and micro nutrients and effects of deficiency and excesses to human health.
Understand the health and social issues linked to alcohol intake in general population.
Understand the role of essential fatty acids, amino acids, water, electrolytes in the diet and their roles in human health.
Solve numerical problems e.g., Body Mass Index, energy content in foods, and interpret its impact on human health.
Apply the knowledge gained through lectures and tutorial discussions to address the contemporary health issues in Australian population.
Demonstrate the communication skills through group discussion, scientific literacy and essay writing. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Take-home mid-semester exam 1 week 30 N Individual   Essay 3,000 words 30 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Health (HLTH)