Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3088 Understanding Freedom Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101798 Coordinator Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window Description "Understanding Freedom" consists of a close analysis of major theories of freedom from ancient times to the contemporary world. It explores the relation between freedom and imprisonment, freedom and politics, freedom and the everyday, as well as the way that freedom informs the production of culture. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explore contemporary theories of freedom;
recognise ways in which theories of freedom can inform contemporary political ideas;
outline theories of freedom in Western thought;
discuss the role of freedom in philosophy and culture;
analyse and critique the traditional understanding of freedom;
evaluate how theories of freedom structure the thought of key-thinkers; and
apply knowledge gained in this subject to other areas of their experience Subject Content - "Understanding Freedom" looks at the way that freedom has been conceptualized and traces the development of that idea in Western thought.
- It examines how freedom is articulated in every-day life, and explores contemporary theories of freedom.
- The Examination of The concept of freedom will be carried out by concentrating on key thinkers who have written on freedom. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 2250 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)