Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 0003 Fundamentals of Finance and Accounting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201034 Coordinator Mark Thomas Opens in new window Description In this unit, students will be introduced to the fundamentals of finance and accounting for business. Students will learn to apply numerical skills within the areas of finance and accounting in preparation for post-graduate study. Financial information will be analysed and interpreted for the purpose of decision-making in a range of corporate contexts. Students will be required to demonstrate an understanding of ethical conduct and best practice reporting in undertaking financial and accounting processes. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 2811 Masters Qualifying Program or 2812 Masters Qualifying Program with Concurrent English. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain fundamental concepts in finance and accounting;
Demonstrate numeracy skills for business application;
Analyse and interpret financial information;
Communicate financial knowledge for decision-making;
Describe the importance of ethical practice in a financial context. Subject Content Introduction to finance and accounting
Accounting for business transactions
Financial statements
Financial analysis
Investment and financing decisions
Corporate decision-making
Ethical practice in finance and accounting
Reporting in finance and accounting Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    In Class Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual   Case Study 1,000 40 N Individual   Report 1,000 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts None Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Masters Qualifying Program with Concurrent English (2812)