Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 2014 Systems Analysis and Design (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Description Computing graduates must be able to analyse business requirements and propose a design solution to those requirements. This subject equips students with these skills by further developing previously acquired concepts on systems analysis and design. Students are introduced to novel approaches in system development including Structured, Object oriented and Agile. The Systems Development Life Cycle model is employed as the prime approach equipping students with the basic skills required for developing models for analysis, design and implementation approaches to solving information systems problems. Students will engage in authentic real-world projects to understand requirements, analyse, design and develop models and artefacts using several systems development methodologies. This subject prepares students for an introductory business analyst role. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 1005 AND
COMP 1005 Equivalent Subjects INFS 1015 Assumed Knowledge Students should have knowledge of the fundamentals of information systems, computer systems, computer applications and information processing. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain systems analysis, systems design and information systems demonstrating knowledge of governance, ethics, security in regard to their impact on information systems design and operation
Apply appropriate analysis and system design techniques for information systems development
Analyse appropriate system development approaches and methodologies
Communicate system requirements, solutions, and designs, in a variety of formats for diverse stakeholders
Collaborate in cross cultural teams and projects in an ethical, responsible, and respectful manner specifically considering the perspectives and rights of Indigenous communities
Design user interfaces, abstract models, architecture and artefacts for design using suitable tools
Create system security, evaluation, and implementation plan for an information system project Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Written submissions & workshop demonstrations delivered progressively through the semester. 30 N Individual N  Quiz Written submissions & workshop demonstrations delivered progressively through the semester. 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Information Systems (INFS)