Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3022 Special Technical Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301089 Coordinator Ali Hellany Opens in new window Description This is an elective subject offered to students who are engaged in a School of Engineering, Design and Built Environment approved project (solar car, Greenhouse, Formula SAE, Purple roof and sustainable house). The subject can be taken during the third year of Engineering, Construction Management and Industrial Design programs and is a capstone subject for students enrolled in Minor Eco-Socially Conscious Design and Manufacturing. This subject consolidates and deepens a student’s knowledge and capabilities developed through previous years of study. Students will develop complex solutions by collaborating with various discipline specialists. This subject develops management, reflective and leadership skills including the ability to work with team members from other fields of study through practical application. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must seek approval from the Subject Coordinator AND have completed 140 credit points before enrolling in the subject. Assumed Knowledge Students must demonstrate commitment to a voluntary student-led project for a minimum of 2 semesters. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Synthesise and apply specialist  knowledge to develop practical and innovative solutions.
Collaborate within a transdisciplinary team to design and develop elements of a project.
Demonstrate project management and organisational skills development whilst participating in a technical project.
Reflect on professional skills development. Subject Content Major Project Formulation, Planning and Execution
Development of integrated practical and innovative solutions to project related challenges
Development of document management processes and procedures
Application of project time and financial management skills Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites WHS Module and Specialist Lab Induction. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Between 1000 and 1500 words 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio Regular entries with an average of 1 per week, 1 page equivalent 50 N Individual N  Reflection Between 1500 and 3000 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ali Hellany Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Eco-Socially Conscious Design and Manufacturing, Minor (0310) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105)