Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7056 Fundamentals of Australian Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201046 Coordinator Sandy Noakes Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the fundamental legal skills required to succeed in the study and practice of law. Students will be introduced to the Australian legal system, legal study skills and the importance of academic integrity for law students, how law is made, how cases and statute interact, the Australian court hierarchies, , case analysis skills, statutory interpretation skills, an introduction to legal ethics and justice, and an introduction to the impact of the Australian legal system on Australian First Peoples. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) None Incompatible Subjects LAWS 1003 Fundamentals of Australian Law Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the basis of the Australian law and legal system, including common law institutions and their roles, and the concepts of justice and ethics and the impact of the Australian legal system on Australian First Peoples.
Apply basic logical and legal reasoning to legal scenarios.
Apply the doctrine of precedent and the rules of statutory interpretation to basic legal problems.
Formulate legal arguments that demonstrate an understanding of the varied functions and techniques of effective communication in legal practice. Subject Content Legal study skills
Academic Integrity
How law is made
How cases and statute interact
Court hierarchies
Case analysis skills
Statutory interpretation skills
Introduction to legal ethics and justice
Introduction to the impact of the Australian legal system on Australian First People Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 quizzes across semester - 30 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 45 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 24 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sandy Noakes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2846) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)