Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7035 Text Analysis for Translation (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102524 Coordinator Chong Han Opens in new window Description The subject provides support for students in the postgraduate Interpreting and Translation programs to develop their analysis skills of the texts they will confront in their translation work. It is a bilingual subject, that is texts in both English and the respective Language Other Than English (i.e. Spanish, Chinese, Arabic, Japanese, Vietnamese, Korean) will be analysed to reveal the structures of meaning and linguistic and contextual features of the texts. It encourages close readings of source texts, understanding where extra-textual knowledge is relevant, and identifying essential meaning components underlying surface linguistic features. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1777 Master of Interpreting and Translation or 1780 Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies Assumed Knowledge Practice in translation and learning of translation strategies at introductory level subjects of Master of Interpreting and Translation, or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of linguistic and textual structures of English and LOTE passages;
Identify differences and similarities between English and LOTE;
Conduct textual analysis of English and LOTE passages;
Apply text analysis techniques to translation tasks; and
Evaluate and critique the quality of their own translations and the translations done by their peers. Subject Content Theories of text analysis as they relate to the translation task.
Identifying different types of source texts
Conducting comparative and contrastive analysis of English and LOTE
Identifying of intra-linguistic factors in source texts in both English and LOTE
Identifying where extra-textual knowledge is required for full comprehension of source texts
Defining translation problems in source texts
Evaluating translation quality Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 Text analysis exercises (each exercise include both English and LOTE tasks) 30 N Individual Y  Practical 150 words x 2 
(1 x English + 1 x LOTE) 20 N Individual Y  Peer Review 1 x English + 1 x LOTE 20 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 150 words x 2 
(1 x English + 1 x LOTE) 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Chong Han Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777)