Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4016 Podiatric Clinical Block Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401117 Coordinator Kym Hennessy Opens in new window Description This subject is the major clinical placement subject in the 4th year of the program. Students will participate in clinical activities in public and private sector placements. The subject builds on previous clinical and academic knowledge to further develop students' clinical reasoning skills encouraging appropriate selection of assessment techniques to diagnose, treat and provide optimal health outcomes. Students under supervision will manage foot and lower limb pathologies across the scope of practice including treating diverse patient cohorts and complex cases (including the high risk foot) transitioning towards a competent graduate entry podiatrist. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 4018
REHA 4007
REHA 4017 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4019 Equivalent Subjects REHA 7019 - Podiatric Clinical Block Restrictions Must be enrolled in 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine Podiatry specific - students will be participating in patient assessment and management. It is essential that they have been able to demonstrate competencies in patient assessment, documentation, treatment programs and communication within allied health / community settings. The podiatric practice subjects in combination with the clinical block placement have been designed to be an integrated suite of subjects where one subject builds on the clinical competencies of the others. Assumed Knowledge Advanced clinical and theoretical podiatric knowledge is necessary to ensure that students in this subject can undertake appropriate assessment techniques to diagnose, treat and provide short and long term health outcomes. Students are expected to have sufficient knowledge and scope to evaluate and manage complex clinical cases in the areas of surgery, paediatrics, high risk foot and musculoskeletal disorders. Completion of all core subjects prior to undertaking subject 401117 Podiatric Clinical Block will equip students will equip students with this assumed knowledge. Learning Outcomes Employ professional communication skills and behaviours in clinical settings.
Implement acquired skills in the practice of podiatry in a variety of clinical settings in an independent manner.
Manage caseloads by demonstrating safe skills, efficiencies and competencies necessary in the management of patients with foot pathologies over a short/long term basis.
Apply and appraise skills, knowledge and contextual information in the assessment, diagnosis and management within diverse cohorts and the multi-disciplinary team.
Conduct effective administrative duties (medical records, referral reports and patient instructions) and management tasks (daily running of the department).
Reflect and appraise their clinical and professional experience. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 20 days supervised placement and 4 hours preparatory lectures S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 3 x 500 words (1500 words total) 40 N Individual N  Viva Voce 15 minutes 60 Y Individual Y  Learning Contract Not specified S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kym Hennessy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)