Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 0028 Statistics for Academic Purposes (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 5 Legacy Code 700045 Coordinator Rubie Herrera Opens in new window Description Understanding, creating and working with statistics are fundamental skill requirements in many areas and career pathways within the arts, business, science and the humanities disciplines. This subject will provide students with a comprehensive overview of statistics in order to prepare them for success in first year university subjects of study where they will further develop their skills. Through both individual and group tasks students will use statistics to organize and display data as well as draw valid inferences, based on data, by using appropriate statistical tools. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Statistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects MATH 0029 - Statistics for Academic Purposes (UWSC) Assumed Knowledge Year 10 Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of the statistical terminology and use the correct notation.
Collect, organise and display data.
Calculate descriptive characteristics and describe data sets.
Calculate and describe the relationship between two variables and use simple linear regression to predict or estimate values.
Calculate probabilities.
Apply appropriate statistical methods to analyse data and make inferences.
Use computer software to display and analyse data. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual N  Report Approximately 100 words plus tables and graphs 10 N Individual N  Report Approximately 500 words plus statistical calculations 30 N Group N  Report 2-3 minutes per student approximately 8 minutes per group + 2 min question time 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam  25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Rubie Herrera Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Rubie Herrera Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7163) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (exit only) (7164) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) Extended (7141) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - ICT (7138) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology Extended - Information Systems (7140) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038) Mathematics (MATH)