Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 2004 Culture, Identity, Difference (Block Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101766 Coordinator Sonia Tascon Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to a range of contemporary theories and concepts that will develop their understanding and analysis of culture, identity and difference within the Australian context. Students will explore the historical and social aspects of culture and identity, and the power and positioning within these. Locations of difference will also be explored such as gender, race, class, ethnicity, sexuality, ability, geography in the Australian context. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Welfare Studies and Services, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1022 - Working with Cultural Differences CEDS 2002 - Working with Cultural Differences in Educational Settings
LGYA 7380 - Working with Cultural Differences in Educational Settings Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed 30 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of contemporary theories and concepts of culture, identity and difference;
Analyse the operation of power in terms of culture, identity and difference in the Australian context;
Describe the historical and social contexts of cultural differences in Australia;
Demonstrate understanding of the concept of whiteness as a structure of authority and as a location of identity;
Explain the operation of sites of power and difference including class, race, gender, ethnicity, ability, geographic location, sexuality, religion. Subject Content Culture, cultural difference and identity
Historical and social perspectives on cultural differences in Australia
Narratives about difference and identities
Understanding of power and positionings within cultural differences
Whiteness as a structure of authority and as a location of identity
Discourses of Indigeneity, Multiculturalism and Belonging in recent Australian history
Locations of difference such as gender, race, class, ethnicity, sexuality, ability, geography in the Australian context Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual   Individual Presentation 20 minutes 25 N Individual   Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Other Society and Culture (CULT)