Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 2008 Cyber Incident Response and Risk Management Credit Points 10 Coordinator Farhad Ahamed Opens in new window Description Cyber risk management is the process of identifying, analysing, and evaluating how to handle an organisations’ cyber security threats. This subject will introduce the fundamental tenets of risk management, and explore cybersecurity risk management frameworks.  Cyber incident response is an organised approach to addressing and managing a major security breach, threat or attack.  The goal is to handle the incident in a way that limits damage, reduces recovery time and losses, and take pro-active measures in the follow up and recovery phase to prevent future attacks.  Students will explore common cyber attacks requiring incident response such as payment diversion fraud (business email compromise), ransomware, data breach, and advanced persistent threats.  They will learn about each of these threats and how to manage such threats through the development of incident response plans including people, process, technology and information.  This subject is taught with industry partners through case studies and simulations.  Due to the sensitive nature of the subject and the requirement of hands on training, it cannot be taught online and is not on offer to WSU Online students.  Online students will take an additional elective. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) COMP 2027 - Cyber Security Restrictions Learning Outcomes Examine key concepts of risk management, common cyber risks, and cyber risk management frameworks.
Discuss fundamentals of cyber incident response.
Write an appropriate cyber incident response plan relevant to the organisation’s needs.
Prepare for a cyber security incident through appropriate mechanisms.
Respond to cyber incidents through appropriate mechanisms. 
Follow up post-incident using appropriate mechanisms. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 X 10 MCQ each 10 N Individual N  Report 800 words 20 N Individual N  Simulation 24 hours 30 N Group N  Report 2000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Farhad Ahamed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Cybersecurity Management, Testamur Major (T153) Other information Technology (INFO)