Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7015 Core Therapeutic Modalities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102360 Coordinator Craig Gonsalvez Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the theory and practice of Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT), an evidence-based form of therapy and an important therapeutic tool for psychologists working in diverse settings. Students in this subject will develop foundational skills in CBT assessment, formulation and treatment and a critical understanding of CBT application across conditions, populations and social settings. In addition, students will be introduced to family therapy (FT), including different models of FT, assessment, case formulation and FT application across different family situations. CBT and FT will be contrasted and examined for their application to a range of common psychological presentations, including ways to tailor responsive interventions in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and multicultural contexts. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1814 Master of Professional Psychology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain and critically evaluate theories and models of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and Family Therapy (APAC GA:3.2).
Implement a CBT assessment, formulation, therapeutic intervention and reflect on practice (APAC GA: 3.3, 3.6, 3.9, 3.15).
Contrast CBT and Family Therapy interventions across a range of psychological problems (APAC GA:3.2).
Examine therapeutic complexities and develop ways to evaluate and tailor CBT and Family Therapy approaches in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and multicultural contexts (APAC GA:3.2, 3.3, 3.7). Subject Content Theoretical and empirical foundations of Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT)
CBT issues and methods
CBT assessment and case formulation
CBT application to common psychological problems and settings.
CBT related therapeutic approaches
Theoretical and empirical foundations of Family Therapy (FT)
Family therapy issues and methods
Introduction to family therapy assessment, and case formulation
Introduction to family therapy applications
Tailoring CBT in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and multicultural contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 50 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 50 minutes 50 Y Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Craig Gonsalvez Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Professional Psychology (1814)