Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 1004 Horticultural Production Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301096 Coordinator Michelle Mak Opens in new window Description Food represents the single largest part of your environmental footprint. This means our modern, urban-oriented society must begin to reconnect with the sources of our food to create more sustainable future. This subject explores the scientific basis of sustainable crop production by examining fruit, vegetable and grain enterprises. Management of produce from harvest to consumption will also be explored to examine factors that impact upon food quality and safety. Students will compare and contrast growing conditions of the highly variable Australian environment to consider the global context for horticultural industry development. By delving into the world of crop management, students will identify the impacts (opportunities and constraints) of plant physiology on the sustainability of food. Students will also consider how novel food products can prompt consumers to appreciate the environmental, economic and social benefits that can arise from sustainable horticultural production. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HORT 1003 - Horticultural Production 2 LGYA 5944 - Fruit Production HORT 1002 - Crop Production HORT 1001 - Crop Production Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of plants. Learning Outcomes Explain the science and practices in crop production and the cause and effect behind these practices
Analyse the benefits and limiting factors of a range of basic techniques used in crop production
Explain the basic principles of production management of selected crops
Describe the harvesting, processing, quality control and packaging of foods derived from crop production
Explain the cost of production for the selected crops grown and justify this against potential market gains
Predict the effects of environmental modification on crop yield, quality and market potential
Appropriately determine plant biomass and calculate fertiliser and chemical application rates Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal  1000 words 15 N Individual   Marketing pitch  1000 words 20 N Individual   Reflection  4 pages 15 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Natural Science, Major (0213) Social Sciences, Major (0216)