Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7154 Professional Experience 1 and Pedagogy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102792 Coordinator Katherine Hadley Opens in new window Description This subject is the first Professional Experience subject of the Master of Teaching (Primary) and Master of Teaching (Secondary) programs. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. This subject incorporates a 30-day placement in a NSW school. It is designed to introduce all students to the philosophical, ethical, practical and pedagogical perspectives of becoming a teacher in diverse, contemporary educational settings. The aim of this subject is to enable you to proactively engage in real-life educational settings to learn and enhance your professional development as a future teacher. This subject gives you the opportunity to explore the relationship between practical and theoretical knowledge of teaching. This subject will provide you with an opportunity to explore a range of learning activities that occur inside and outside the classrooms, and the roles of the teaching and non-teaching staff within the school. Through ongoing observation, supervised teaching and contribution in the wider school community, the subject ensures you work towards the achievement of the national standards for a graduate teacher. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM must has successfully completed
TEAC 7161 Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching and TEAC 7032 Diversity Social Justice and Schooling and
(TEAC 7160 Literacy Numeracy for Secondary Teaching or TEAC 7027 Designing Teaching and Learning)
Students enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) must has successfully completed
TEAC 7161 Educational Psychology for Learning and Teaching and TEAC 7032 Diversity Social Justice and Schooling Co-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 1714 - Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM must have successfully completed or be enrolled in TEAC 7082 Pedagogy for Positive learning Environments
Students enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) must have successfully completed or be enrolled in TEAC 7082 Pedagogy for Positive learning Environments or TEAC 7141 Teaching and Learning in Classrooms Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7097 - Primary Professional Practice 1 TEAC 7135 - Secondary Professional Practice I TEAC 7109 - Professional Practice 1 TEAC 7102 - Professional Experience 1 TEAC 7136 - Secondary Professional Practice 1 STEM Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1846 Graduate Certificate in Education (Curriculum Specialisation) or 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM or 1914 Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching. Students enrolled in 1714 must have successfully completed 40 credit points to enrol in this subject. 
Students enrolled in 1781 must have successfully completed 40 credit points to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in 1848 must have successfully completed 40 credit points to enrol in this subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand how schools and classrooms are organised and managed.
Understand relevant legislative, administrative and organisational policies and processes.
Plan lessons that demonstrate knowledge of students, learning theory, quality teaching, Australian Curriculum and NSW Syllabus documents.
Implement required lessons that use appropriate pedagogies to engage diverse learners and address learning goals, with support from senior educators.
Propose ideas/solutions to enhance safe and challenging learning environments based on relevant theories, policies and practices.
Utilise appropriate resources including ICTs and other technologies to foster students’ engagement to support learning.
Interact ethically and professionally with staff, students, peers, and the broader school community
Reflect on own learning and feedback to develop their teaching performance with the Australian Professional Standards for Graduate Teachers Subject Content Organisation of professional experience (Placement schools; planning and teaching requirements, understanding expectations).   


Understanding the context of contemporary Australian schools and classrooms.  


The roles and responsibilities of a teacher in NSW schools (Australian Professional Standards for Teachers, policies, ethics).   


The Professional Teacher (effective communication, professional interactions, ethical and professional conduct).  


Addressing diverse learners including physical, cultural, religious, social, linguistic and intellectual characteristics on learning; strategies to build rapport with students).


The use of explicit pedagogies and responsive approaches for student engagement, teaching strategies, assessment, and digital learning. 


Critical reflection in teaching.  


Use of assessment and feedback in teaching. Organisation of professional experience (Placement schools; planning and teaching requirements, understanding expectations). Understanding the context of contemporary Australian schools and classrooms. The roles and responsibilities of a teacher in NSW schools (Australian Professional Standards for Teachers, policies, ethics). The Professional Teacher (effective communication, professional interactions, ethical and professional conduct). Addressing diverse learners including physical, cultural, religious, social, linguistic and intellectual characteristics on learning; strategies to build rapport with students). The use of explicit pedagogies and responsive approaches for student engagement, teaching strategies, assessment, and digital learning. Critical reflection in teaching. Use of assessment and feedback in teaching. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the TWO components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a WWCC number by the Office of the Children’s Guardian under the category of either volunteer or paid , AND (b) verification of the WWCC number with the NSW Department of Education. To obtain a WWCC number, students will need to:
     i. Access the Office of the Children’s Guardian website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
     ii. Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
     iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.  WesternNow Student Portal link:  https://wsu.service-now.com/student?id=sc_cat_item&sys_id=9c8b61a2dbbed8504f58e434059619ed For (b) verify WWCC number with the NSW Department of Education, students will need to:
     i. Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
     ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
     iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
     iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
     v. Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the TWO components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT), namely (a) complete initial training, AND (b) complete annual updates each year they are enrolled in a teaching degree. For (a) complete initial training, students will need to:
     i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
     ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
     iii. Save certificate of completion
     iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal For (b) complete annual updates each year they are enrolled in a teaching degree, students will need to:
     i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
     ii. Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
     iii. Save certificate of completion
     iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Primary), or the Master of Teaching (Secondary). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 30 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 30 days S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 300 words (lesson plan 1 reflection), 300 words (lesson plan 2 reflection), 400 words (placement reflection) =1,000 words S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)