Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7023 Social Work Practice Methods 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102390 Coordinator Doris Asante Opens in new window Description Social Work Practice Methods1 introduces students to a range of skills, knowledge and professional values for work with individuals and families in diverse practice settings. Students are supported to develop core verbal and written communication skills including engagement, assessment, designing and implementing interventions, evaluation, report writing and record keeping practices. There is an emphasis on safe, inclusive and responsive practice with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and people from culturally diverse backgrounds. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1792 Master of Social Work (Qualifying) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Compare and contrast social work practice theories, approaches and models with individuals and families.
Utilise communication and interviewing skills for engaging with individuals and families in social work practice.
Integrate social work theories, models and methods to facilitate casework practice.
Critically reflect on personal values, skills and use of self in a way that allows professional values to guide own professional practice to enhance professional development.
Evaluate the application of individual and family work to diverse fields of practice including mental health and child wellbeing.
Demonstrate an awareness of safe, inclusive and responsive practice with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and people from culturally and diverse backgrounds. Subject Content 1.Knowledge, skills and professional values for Social Work practice.
2.Core verbal and written communication skills for work with individuals and families (e.g. engagement, assessment, designing and implementing interventions, evaluation, report writing and record keeping).
3. Advocacy, self-determination, empowerment and social justice.
4. Individual and family work in diverse fields of practice including mental health and child wellbeing.
5. Safe, inclusive and responsive practice with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and people from culturally and diverse backgrounds.
6. Working with voluntary and involuntary individuals and families in diverse practice settings.
7. Critically reflexive practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 3 x 300 word entries  (900 words) 30 N Individual Y  Interview 12 minute video 20 N Individual Y  Reflection 300 words 10 N Individual Y  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Doris Asante Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Social Work (Qualifying) (1792)