Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7055 Perinatal, Infant and Child Mental Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401375 Coordinator Rachel Gregory-Wilson Opens in new window Description This subject replaced by NURS 5003 - Perinatal, Infant and Child Mental Health in Spring 2023. This subject enables students to explore the complex issues related to Perinatal, Infant and Child mental health including: the importance of the parent infant relationship to maternal and infant mental health, antenatal and postnatal depression and anxiety, substance misuse and domestic violence. Through examination of these complex issues, students will gain knowledge of the risk and protective factors that influence outcomes for infants, children and families. Strategies to promote emotional wellbeing, positive parent- child relationships and social support for these families is an essential learning component supported by the concepts of targeted and specialist intervention, and early intervention.  The knowledge gained in this subject will be consolidated through virtual clinical placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mothercraft Nursing and Family and Child Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4713 Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane), 4714 Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) or 4715 Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane). Assumed Knowledge Fundamental concepts of mental health at undergraduate degree level. An understanding of professional frameworks and competencies for the Registered Nurse or Registered Midwife at a undergraduate level, augment experience at a general Registered Nurse or Registered Midwife level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the importance of positive parent child relationships on emotional development as a predictor of child development.
Determine risk and protective factors that influence global outcomes for children and their families including intergenerational issues using a socioecological model
Recognise the risk factors and signs of anxiety and depression in childhood
Explain the impact of perinatal depression and anxiety on the infant-parent relationship and analyse the management and treatment of perinatal mood disorders
Evaluate the impact of domestic/family violence on the health and wellbeing of women, children and families and identify strategies to support families
Analyse how parental substance misuse impacts parenting capacity and family life
Based on best available evidence, discuss early prevention and intervention strategies and programs that promote the health and wellbeing of children
Prioritise and select appropriate skills as a self- reliant learner to effectively work in groups and teams Subject Content 1. Parent - infant relationship and introduction to attachment theory
2. Emotional development
3. Transition to parenthood and parenting styles
4. Psychosocial assessment
5. Perinatal Mental Disorder (PMD) management
6. Risk and protective factors affecting mental wellbeing
7. Interventions to support families Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 word case study and 5 minute video recording 50 N Individual N  Practical 20 hours S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Nursing (NURS)