Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2001 Advanced Science Project A Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300937 Coordinator Sabine Piller Opens in new window Description The subject is design to teach students what is required to successfully begin to answer a scientific question. It specially focuses on teaching students how to access and critically review literature on a given topic, chosen in consultation with a supervisor in the student's preferred field of study. Students will present their findings in both written and poster formats. Students also attend a one day workshop where they engage with researchers in a wide variety of fields to broaden their understanding of research. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6165 - Advanced Science Research Project A Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3562 Bachelor of Science (Advanced Science) or 3682 Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced) or 3683 Bachelor of Natural Science (Advanced) and must have passed 60 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Assess research activities and research presentations
Access, review, assess and critically evaluate relevant research literature on a topic chosen by the supervisor
Communicate in written and poster formats
Reflect on experiences and exposure to the research environment broadly Subject Content 1. Define research and gain a wide understanding of research
2. Find and critically assess the available literature on a given topic and write a critical review of the literature on a given topic
3. Present critical review in written and poster presentation formats
4. Engage with researchers in different fields to gain knowledge of the broader research environment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual N  Poster Poster 25 N Individual N  Critical Review 2,000 words 45 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sabine Piller Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Sabine Piller Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sabine Piller Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)