Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2013 Graphics 4: Kinetic Narratives Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301091 Coordinator Dean Preston Opens in new window Description From 2020, this subject will be replaced by 301308 - Design Practice: Sustainable Manufacturing.       This subject introduces students to real life applications of graphics technology, such as 3D games, 3D virtual environments, immersive learning spaces, dynamic 3D simulations of ecosystems, artwork for public spaces, virtual agents. Students will use different software platforms to create interactive 3D environments. They will apply theories of human-computer interaction to design projects where they develop: "a dynamic simulation of a natural or artificial ecosystem", a dynamic 3D virtual environment in which users interact with agents. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 2012 Equivalent Subjects ENGR 3018 - Industrial Graphics 4 Surface Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles and theories of human computer interaction in both designing and evaluating virtual worlds and 3D environments.
Make an informed choice from a range of different software platforms to create interactive 3D environments.
Construct dynamic simulations of natural or artificial ecosystems.
Create 3D virtual environments in which users interact with digital agents.
Use algorithmic and parametric modelling software to simulate static and dynamic 3D structures. Subject Content 3D environments and 3D models
Software tools to create 3D models
Application Areas of 3D environments
User Perception Aspects of 3D environments
Components and structure of 3D environments in relation to Computer Graphics
Algorithmic Modelling
Game Development Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Assessment 1a - Initial Representation of 3D environment Submitted project files and code (1000 lines) 15 N Individual   Assessment 1b - Demo presentation of 3D environment including interactions 10 minutes presentation and project files/code submitted (2000 lines) 30 N Individual   Assessment 2 - Weekly Tutorial/Lab activities Set of exercises (5 exercises, 90 minutes each) 40 N Individual   Assessment 3 - In class Quizzes X 2 1 hour each 15 N Individual Structures that include subject Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)