Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3022 Paramedicine Leadership Credit Points 10 Description This subject introduces students to Paramedicine leadership in the context of an emerging profession. Students will undertake a 4-week clinical placement block with an emergency ambulance crew, which will, in part, be used as a basis for reflective learning activities and critical analysis. Students will explore and discuss concepts of organisational and clinical leadership and supervision, drawing from their clinical placement and other experiences. Students will learn about leadership styles, principles of clinical education, mentoring and supervision strategy, as well as risk assessment, mass casualty and organisational behaviour. Staff wellness, organisational efficiency and sustainable practices will be common goals to aspire to. This ground-up leadership is intended to contribute to organisational success and mitigates the risk of victimology among new entrants to the field. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes The new proposed Subject Learning Outcomes are: Apply effective communication skills, ethics, professionalism and consistent safe work practices in a real-world environment
Assess patients, formulate a clinical impression, and implement a prioritised clinical management plan under supervision
Analyse their individual leadership style and identify personal strengths and weakness
Integrate leadership theory into paramedic practice by considering leadership typology, theoretical application and implications
Justify use of community-based disaster risk assessment and Mass Casualty Incident Management.
Conceptualise and articulate one’s role in contemporary leadership functions such as visioning, leading through teams, human capital leadership, coaching and workplace health and safety. Subject Content A 4-week clinical placement involving application of skills and knowledge in scene management and patient examination and assessment, clinical decision making, and patient management.  Students will complete a reflective practice exercise that will be used to frame the post-clinical placement learning around leadership as it relates to patient safety and organisational efficiency. o Organisational
o Operational
o Professional 
o Clinical o Staff welfare and support Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 4 weeks 1 Y Individual Y  Quiz Up to 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Reflection 3,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Viva Voce Up to 45 minutes 40 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Other Health (HLTH)