Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7025 Health Promotion and the Nurse Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400210 Coordinator Laynie Hall Pullin Opens in new window Description The challenge for nursing in terms of health promotion is to acknowledge the complex interrelatedness between a person's social and economic situation, their sense of power and control over their life and their physical, emotional and spiritual well-being, i.e. To understand that health is determined by the totality of a person's life circumstances and their inherent traits. This subject uses a social health perspective to examine evidence-based health promotion strategies that can be implemented in the context of nursing practice. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the socio-political influences and Social Determinants of Health which underpin health promotion planning for populations. 
Evaluate the implications of international, national, and state policy in determining health promotion planning in Australia, including initiatives designed for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 
Critique health promotion initiatives implemented for populations and groups, both nationally and internationally. 
Create measurable short and long-term objectives to address health revealed in a community needs analysis to design planning and evaluation strategies for health promotion.
Critically appraise the implications of using health promotion in nursing within a range of clinical and community settings.
Formulate a health promotion project proposal related to a specialty area of nursing practice in any clinical or community setting. Subject Content The social perspective of health in relation to planning for health promotion.
Evaluating the influence of Social Determinants of Health in planning health promotion for populations and groups. 
Health promotion using a Primary Health Care philosophy and framework.
The influence of International, National and State policy in determining directions for health promotion. 
Issues of power and decision-making in health promotion priorities within community and clinical settings.
Effects of the World Health Organization policies within the Australian context
National and State government health promotion policies and programs designed to  improve the health of the population. 
Critiquing contemporary health education strategies. 
Analysing components of a community needs analysis and searching for evidence of population health. 
Planning measurable short and long-term objectives for health promotion. 
The planning of health promotion using logic models. 
Formulating process, impact and outcome evaluations using qualitative and quantitative strategies. 
The relevance and application of health promotion in clinical and community nursing practice.
Evaluating the role of the Registered Nurse in designing and implementing health promotion for populations and groups. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Proposal 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Laynie Hall Pullin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Laynie Hall Pullin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (Professional Studies) (exit only) (4736) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Master of Nursing (Professional Studies) (4735) Nursing (NURS) Postgraduate Nursing, Major (0046)