Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7166 Inclusive Pedagogies Credit Points 10 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Description Inclusion is a right for all children. This subject explores how socio-cultural factors influence children’s experiences of difference, diversity and disability. Students will reflect on their role as a teacher in advocating for equity and access to nurturing early childhood and primary inclusive learning environments.  By drawing on research and relevant curriculum documents, students will learn to optimise learning through a tiered, strength-based approach that reduces barriers to learning and strengthens the diverse capabilities of all learners.  The subject promotes the importance of collaborative partnerships with families and all those working with the child. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Special Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7052 TEAC 7053 TEAC 7049 TEAC 7153 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes Analyse how socio-cultural factors influence experiences of difference, diversity and disability and how this affects equitable access to nurturing inclusive learning environments. 
Critique the impact of international, national and state/territory legislation, regulation and policies on early childhood and primary education inclusive pedagogies.
Discuss the teacher’s role in both advocating for and implementing inclusion to ensure equity, engagement and inclusive pedagogies.
Identify communication, coordination and collaborative strategies that will create respectful, reciprocal partnerships with families and the team around the child to support inclusion in early childhood and primary school settings.
Analyse children’s learning capabilities and barriers to learning by using knowledge of child development, learning theories and research about specific disabilities to inform practices. 
Create a strength-based inclusion plan that respects family priorities and is aligned with curricula.  
Plan responsive, intentional teaching strategies that will enhance children’s inclusion and learning and are responsive to a child’s current abilities, dispositions and skills.
Advocate for practices that facilitate smooth transitions and continuity of learning between systems and settings. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Cologon, K. & Mevawalla, Z. (2023). Inclusive education in the early years: Right from the start (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press.
Graham, L. J. (Ed.). (2023). Inclusive education for the 21st century: Theory, policy and practice (2nd ed.). Taylor & Francis. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kerry Staples Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)