Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 0009 Cultural Perspectives (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700212 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to help students understand why people from diverse cultures and historical periods may think differently, behave differently and have vastly different worldviews.  This subject is designed to help students understand more about themselves, their family and friends and the reasons why people do things in particular ways and believe the things that they do.  It has a strong theoretical base but is also designed to encourage reflection. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 0010 - Cultural Perspectives (UWSC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a foundational understanding of the key concept of culture, and its related analytical perspectives of cultural relativism and ethnocentrism.
Identify and examine specific locations of historical, geographical and social differences, such as modernity, nationality, gender and social class.
Compare how different historical, geographical and social locations foster different cultural perspectives.
Demonstrate a proficiency in the basic research and writing skills of tertiary study through the effective presentation of ideas in written, oral and digital form.
Work effectively as part of a group, and reflect critically on both individual and group achievements. Subject Content 1. Foundation ideas in cultural and social analysis
2. Academic definitions of culture, gender, social class, modernity, power, Indigeneity, the self and the ?gWestern World?h
3. Introductions to key social and cultural debates around multiculturalism, privilege, religion, globalization
4. Analysis of students?f own socio-cultural locations
1. Foundation ideas in cultural and social analysis
2. Academic definitions of culture, gender, social class, modernity, power, Indigeneity, the self and the ?gWestern World?h
3. Introductions to key social and cultural debates around multiculturalism, privilege, religion, globalization
4. Analysis of students?f own socio-cultural locations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 250 words 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 3 – 4 minutes each  (500 words) 30 N Group N  Reflection 500 words 20 N Individual N  Portfolio 750 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts Extended - Arts (7161) Diploma in Arts Extended - Interpreting and Translation (7166) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12 (7146) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary (7187) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Primary (7144) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Secondary (7145) Diploma in Communication Extended - Communication (7148) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication Extended - Screen Media (Arts and Production) (7150) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)