Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3007 Disease Prevention and Control Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300867 Coordinator Lisa Hughes Opens in new window Description Globally we are witnessing an epidemiological transition with the emergence and re-emergence of diseases through social, political and environmental changes including rapid urbanisation, social media influence, international migration/travel, political instability and climate change.  This subject of study will provide students with an introduction into the epidemiology of public health diseases of significance in Australia and internationally through exploration of current strategies for the detection, monitoring and control of existing and emerging diseases.  The principles of risk management will also be discussed and applied in relation to disease prevention, containment or eradication including vector-borne, vaccine preventable, zoonotic, food and waterborne disease. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 3006 - Disease Prevention and Control Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge A background knowledge of microbiology, and epidemiology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the underlying principles of disease prevention and control (physical, chemical, biological and social)
Discuss the role of social, environmental and political factors in the transmission, propagation, prevention and control of disease
Research and apply data on specific disease prevention and control issues from relevant scholarly, government and industry sources.
Interpret principles of risk assessment and risk management in relation to select environmental health risks and hazards
Evaluate the epidemiology and significance of selected communicable diseases both locally and globally
Investigate and prepare risk management response for selected communicable disease/public health hazards in relation to relevant public health legislation. Subject Content Epidemiological principles of disease prevention, surveillance, investigation and control. 
The nature, transmission and control of communicable diseases of public health importance. 
Risk management and risk communication in prevention and control of infectious diseases. 
Interpretation of epidemiological data on disease surveillance and outbreaks. 
Social, political and environmental factors in disease prevention and control. Australian disease surveillance and control programs. 
Interpret and implement Public Health legislation for inspections and enforcement Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Poster Maximum 2 pages 25 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation Maximum 15 minutes 25 N Group N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Maggie Davidson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Minor (0208) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Infectious Diseases, Minor (0231) Public Health (PUBH)