Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7157 Action Research in Teaching Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102811 Coordinator David Cole Opens in new window Description This subject provides an opportunity for students to engage with literature on a particular aspect of a research topic and design a research project in a team. Students will: locate and select relevant research literature to investigate a particular research question; analyse key ideas, assumptions and domains of knowledge in the literature around that question; identify appropriate research methods and designs for answering it; critically apply appropriate forms of data collection and data analysis to that research design, and develop research findings into an informed discussion linking to broader academic conversations around the field being researched. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7117 - Researching Teaching Learning 2 Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) and have completed 90cp. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Select relevant primary research literature to investigate a nominated action research question.
Analyse key ideas, assumptions and domains of knowledge in the literature related to a nominated research question.
Select appropriate research methods relevant to action research design.
Demonstrate understanding of the ethical frameworks impacting on research in education.
Critically apply appropriate forms of data collection and data analysis to a research design.
Apply research findings to inform discussion of the nominated theme, linking to the broader research area. Subject Content 1. How is research on a nominated key problem or research question in education best designed?
2. What is the goal of a literature review?
3. What range of data can be gathered to answer a particular research question?
4. What methods, instruments and approaches are most appropriate to answer a particular research question?
5. How is data collected and analysed?
6. What are evidence and ethics?
7. What modes of research are commonly used in practitioner research in education (e.g. text analysis, action research, case studies, surveys) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15 minutes each 20 N Individual Y  Literature Review 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Cole Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Cole Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)