Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 1015 Practicum 1: Foundations in Practice Credit Points 10 Coordinator Josh Kalemba Opens in new window Description This subject explores various models and approaches to youth work practice that promote young people's active involvement, empower them to make decisions, and emphasise cooperation and collaboration, instead of coercion. The subject also incorporates a 140-hour practicum observation component, providing students with first-hand experience and insights into real-world youth work scenarios. Students gain theoretical insights, practical skills, and real-world experience by observing a youth worker in action and assisting with entry level tasks. This integrated approach equips students with a holistic understanding of youth work models and their practical application. School Social Sciences Discipline Youth Work Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 1014 - Introduction to Youth Work Theory and Approaches Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1933 Bachelor of Youth Work and have successfully completed 40 credit points at Level 1. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and describe a range of youth work models and approaches used by youth workers in the youth work sector.
Apply youth work models to real-world scenarios, considering their strengths and limitations.
Describe ethical considerations when selecting and applying youth work models.
Analyse the ethical aspects of putting diverse youth models into practice. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a: Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 500 words 20 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)