Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7026 Designing Curriculum Futures Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102159 Coordinator Karyn West Opens in new window Description This subject considers the research and theoretical basis of curriculum futures, with a focus on design for learning and learning design, and critically examines contextual factors and their implications for learning design in a range of settings. The subject provides a critical overview of perspectives on curriculum, curriculum design and examines authentic learning and assessment. Examples of curriculum futures will be negotiated and explicated. The overall focus is on curriculum decision-making and planning for improved learning outcomes. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7024 - Curriculum Futures Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program or 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate the theoretical basis of curriculum and design for learning
Critically evaluate contextual factors which have implications for curriculum
Strengthen individual teaching philosophy and application of learning and teaching
Develop learning design responding to curriculum issues, towards planning for improved learning outcomes Subject Content 1. Theoretical basis of curriculum
- curriculum futures
- design for learning
- learning design
2. Critical review of factors that have implications for curriculum: e.g. digital learning; citizenship; and globalisation
3. Critical overview of perspectives on curriculum, followed by a focused examination of connected learning and assessment
4. Action research and collaborative decision making
5. Examination of topical curriculum issues
6. Focus on curriculum decision-making and planning for improved learning outcomes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 3500 words 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Karyn West Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Katherine Hadley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Educational Leadership, Testamur Major (T134) Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Leadership and Management, Testamur Major (T139) Leadership, Testamur Major (T136) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)