Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 6004 Data Capture and Creative Communication Credit Points 10 Coordinator Donna James Opens in new window Description In Spring 2024, this subject replaced by TOUR 7004 - Tourism, Hospitality and Events Insights. This subject provides students with the knowledge and skills to creatively address a range of operational and engagement challenges in the tourism, heritage and visitor economy sectors. Through practical application and class-based theory, students will have the opportunity to learn a variety of data-capture and creative communication techniques, including: safe drone operation, high quality audio-visual recording, video editing, digital mapping, and graphic design for marketing, interpretation and public engagement. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of marketing principles is desirable. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Demonstrate an ability to capture data and communicate creatively through a number of techniques.
2. Capture audio and video material and edit these into a professional video.
3. Create simple maps using specialist software.
4. Analyse spatial data for the purposes of operational planning.
5. Use graphic design principles and software to create marketing and interpretation materials. Subject Content 1.  Different data capture and creative communication techniques for the tourism, heritage and visitor experience economies sectors.
2.  Audio-visual editing skills using Adobe Premiere Rush (free software).
3.  Operational mapping skills using Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
4.  Graphic design of marketing and interpretation materials using Adobe Illustrator.
5.  Professional communication with industry partners to co-design resources that fulfil a business need. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 3 minute edited video (Equivalent to 750 words) 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Poster 1,250 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Tourism (TOUR)