Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 2020 Introduction to Digital Mental Health Credit Points 10 Coordinator Abhijatya Dhar Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the emerging field of digital mental health.  Digital mental health services, including telehealth, web-based counselling services and mobile phone apps, are increasingly being adopted in the practice of psychology and other health disciplines. This subject describes the uses of digital mental health for health promotion, prevention and treatment of mental illnesses.  Benefits and limitations of digital delivery of mental health services are described in the context of the broader public mental health system, with a focus on young people and smartphone apps.  An assessment framework for mental health smartphone apps will be introduced to support students' critical evaluation of the quality and integrity of smartphone apps.  Students will also apply their understanding of digital mental health to a real-world project. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Evaluate the main features and applications of digital mental health within the stepped care model and the e-spectrum model. (Mapping onto CLO1,2 APAC Graduate Attributes 1.1i, 1.1iii, 1iv, 1.3) 2. Critically evaluate smartphone apps using the American Psychiatric Association's App Evaluation framework, distinguishing accessible, safe and engaging apps. (Mapping onto CLO1,4,5,6 APAC GA 1.1xi, 1.2, 1.3) 3, Create an industry case study on mental health and wellbeing using mental health services. (Mapping onto CLO2,6,7,8 APAC GA 1.1iii, 1,2, 1.3, 1.5, 1.6) 4. Reflect on using digital services to support mental health and wellbeing, in the context of usability and safety. (Mapping onto CLO7,8 APAC GA 1.1iii, 1.4) Subject Content 1. Introduction to Digital Mental Health (DMH) 2. Application to Workplace Project I 3. Mental Health Promotion and Prevention Using Digital Mental Health Tools 4. Application to Workplace Project 2 5. Treatment Using Digital Mental Health Tools 6. Application to Workplace Project 3 7. Evaluating Quality, Safety and Usability of Smartphone Apps A 8. Application to Workplace Project 4 9. Evaluating Quality, Safety and Usability of Smartphone Apps B 10. Application to Workplace Project 5 11. Future Directions Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to smartphone to download and use mental health apps. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 2 x 250 word discussion posts 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 500 words 20 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words 20 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Strutt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Abhijatya Dhar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Behavioural Science (BEHV)