Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1017 Mathematics for Engineers 1 (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700101 Coordinator Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window Description The content of this subject covers a number of topics in mathematics essential to the study of engineering.  The subject matter includes:  matrix algebra, complex numbers, vectors, functions and inverse functions, differential and integral calculus of a single variable and some elementary statistics and probability theory. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1022 Equivalent Subjects MATH 1018 - Mathematics for Engineers 1 (WSTC) Incompatible Subjects MATH 1014 - Mathematics 1A MATH 1015 - Mathematics 1B MATH 1011 - Fundamentals of Mathematics MATH 1021 - Mathematics for Engineers Preliminary Assumed Knowledge HSC Maths achieved at Band 5 or 6.  This is the minimum requirement. Learning Outcomes Solve problems involving matrices and determinants
Define j2 and operate with complex numbers
Perform operations on vectors, both in 2-D and 3-D
Find solutions to problems involving logarithmic, exponential, inverse trigonometric, hyperbolic and inverse hyperbolic functions
Apply correctly the techniques of both differential and integral calculus to solve problems that may involve transcendental functions
Define a random variable and find its probability distribution and calculate probabilities based on the Binomial distribution, the Poisson distribution and the Normal distribution
Appreciate the relevance of mathematics in an engineering context
Communicate mathematical ideas using common conventions Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving Part 1: Approx. 30 min    Part 2: Approx. 30 min 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 90 mins + 30 min for online submission 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Approx 1 hour 20 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam Part 1: 2 hours + 30 min for online submission  Part 2: 20 min for each student for viva voce 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Mathematics (MATH) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH)