Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7068 Chronic Conditions and Disability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401456 Coordinator Anne Marks Opens in new window Description Chronic Conditions and Disability utilises an evidence-based approach to develop an understanding of pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and nursing care for people across the lifespan who experience chronic conditions and/or disability. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 7071 - Introduction to alterations in health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body
systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret the causes, pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic procedures related to common chronic conditions.
Deliberate ethical, legal and professional issues when caring for a person living with a chronic condition or disability .
Analyse the best evidence related to common chronic conditions or persons with a disability.
Recommend strategies that promote a shared decision-making process in collaboration with carers, families, and individuals living with a chronic condition or disability.
Develop evidence-based rationales for safe, person-centred care of people with chronic conditions or persons with a disability. Subject Content Knowledge and application of the following concepts to inform professional nursing practice related to chronic conditions and disability affecting the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems: a. Cause: Risk factors b. Clinical manifestations c. Diagnosis d. Pathophysiology e. Treatment: Pharmacological and non-pharmacological f. Nursing role and responsibilities: evidenced based practice by accessing and analysing the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice 2. Concepts and principles of care related to chronicity and disability a. Rehabilitation and habilitation b. Person-centred care c. Shared decision-making Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session.
See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 500 words 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 40 minutes x 1 30 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Anne Marks Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anne Marks Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)