Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2031 Promoting Mental Health and Wellbeing 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401013 Coordinator Diana Jefferies Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the care of individuals with mental health concerns and/or illness. The national mental health policies provide a framework to focus on a range of determinants and consequences of mental health and illness in Australia. The principles of stress vulnerability and recovery will be introduced. The subject will offer an introduction for students to caring for individuals with depression, anxiety and substance use, and their families/significant others. The concepts of therapeutic use of self and reflection when engaging with people with mental health needs will be introduced. Students will develop their knowledge of mental health assessment, risk assessment and risk management across the lifespan. Self-care strategies in everyday collaborative nursing and midwifery practice will be considered. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mental Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 2021 - Mental Health Nursing 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing, 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced), 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) or 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online. Students must be enrolled in 4780 to enrol in WSU Online Campus subjects. Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, professional communication, foundational concepts in human behavioural science and their application to nursing or midwifery practice, roles and responsibilities of registered nurse or midwife. Learning Outcomes Apply primary health care principles in the promotion of mental health & wellbeing in diverse settings.
Distinguish the mental health priorities in relation to meeting the needs of individuals and their families/significant others in the community.
Relate the principles of stress, mental health assessment, risk assessment and management in promoting mental health and wellbeing.
Explain the principles and skills of therapeutic communication and interventions related to caring for people experiencing alterations in thought, behaviour, and mood.
Apply ethico-legal implications in relation to the care of people with mental health concerns and/or illnesses
Develop an understanding of the lived experiences and recovery for individuals with mental health concerns and/or illnesses. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Video Assessment 10 minutes 40 N Individual   Participation Tasks 30 minutes 10 N Individual   Final Exam - Online 1 hour 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Nursing (NURS)