Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2006 Advertising: Media Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101034 Coordinator Susanna Benzko Opens in new window Description This subject explores the critical role of Media in Advertising Campaigns. Through research, analysis and strategic thinking, students will develop media plans for clients. This subject covers media planning in depth: choosing different combinations of media to achieve campaign objectives - digital, outdoor, print, social, radio, TV, cinema, ambient; the use of consumer insight in planning, measures of performance, and creativity in planning and buying. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MKTG 1001 OR
MKTG 1006 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0738 - Audience Analysis and Media Planning Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the key concepts and terminology used in advertising media planning.
Formulate objectives, strategies and tactics for media planning.
Use research and knowledge of audiences and the media environment to develop creative media strategies and tactics. (To be assessed by completing Exercises and the Major Project.)
Prepare, cost and evaluate a basic media plan and develop a hypothetical media calendar flow chart, allocate budget. (To be assessed by completing Exercises and the Major Project.
Apply Professional Conduct to tasks. Subject Content Introduction/Australian Media Market Overview
Media options available and analysis
The steps within the Media process
Media Strategy development
Target Audience review
Competitor Analysis
Media Implementation
Digital Media
Accountability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 x 10 question quizzes 20 N Individual Y  Critical Review 5 min presentation; 500 word report 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 2.5 hrs visit, 500 word written task 10 N Individual Y  Report 4,000 words 40 N Group Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Susanna Benzko Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Susanna Benzko Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Susanna Benzko Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Susanna Benzko Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advertising Studies, Minor (0043) Advertising, Major (0159) Advertising, Minor (0159) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Communication and Media (COMM) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)