Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3016 Language and Literacy in the Early Years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102646 Coordinator Johanna Einfalt Opens in new window Description The subject examines ways of understanding English content based on the strands of language, literature and literacy in the Australia Curriculum: English and the NSW K-6 English Syllabus. Students will understand how language skills are acquired and introduced to theories related to language and literacy learning, particularly from a sociocultural perspective. Students will explore the relationships between language, literacy and literature across a range of contexts with the focus on children in the early years, aged five to eight. Students will also develop an understanding of current theoretical and pedagogical approaches for English language teaching and learning with a focus on culturally and linguistically diverse learners. Students will determine young children’s speaking, listening, reading, phonological and graphological awareness, and writing strengths and needs and develop strategies for teaching students in the early years. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the nature of language acquisition, language and literacy development. 
Examine strategies for teaching language skills based on the Australian Curriculum: English and the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: English K-10 syllabus, in the early years i.e. 1st year of schooling (Kindergarten) to year 3. 
Identify and evaluate strategies for teaching and assessing the strengths, needs and knowledge of a range of diverse learners in K-3 classrooms, particularly EAL/), Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners and learners from low SES backgrounds.  
Analyse and critique student assessment data, and apply assessment moderation principles to monitor progress towards meeting learning outcomes. 
Apply understandings of pedagogy and curriculum design to plan engaging lesson sequences that use a range of resources, for example, high quality children’s literature, and information and communications technology (ICT). 
Synthesize opportunities for English language and literacy learning across the curriculum. Subject Content Overview of language and literacy acquisition and learning theories
Content and accompanying strategies for teaching language skills (talking & listening, reading, phonological and graphological awareness, viewing and writing based on the Australian Curriculum: English and the NSW K-6 English syllabus
Language and literacy teaching and learning for diverse learners including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners, EAL/D, Special Needs and Low SES Learners
Assessment of speaking, listening, reading, writing and viewing skills in the early years
Programming lesson sequences for language and literacy learning using a variety of texts
Planning and implementing English language learning across the curriculum Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject: 1. Students are required to complete a Working with Children Check leading to the issuance of a clearance number under the category of volunteer. Students will need to: 
i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.  
ii. Present an application number and identification to a NSW Motor Registry or Government Access Centre prior to issuance by mail a Working with Children Check number.  
iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number to Student Central where the document is trimmed and recorded in Banner as a Special Requirement. 2. Students must have completed Child Protection Awareness Training (Online) prior to undertaking any visits/placements. 3. Students must have completed the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and registered their certificates with Student Central. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1500 - 2000 words 50 Y Individual Y  Report 1500 words max + appendix data 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Johanna Einfalt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)