Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1006 Communication and Mealtime Foundations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401416 Coordinator Alison Purcell Opens in new window Description This subject provides an orientation to the foundational concepts that underpin Speech Pathologists' practice in the areas of communication and mealtimes across the lifespan. The subject will introduce students to core practice areas and explore the role of the Speech Pathologist in working with individuals, families and communities across different clinical contexts. Students will have the opportunity to compare and contrast typical and disordered presentation of speech, language, voice, fluency, multimodal communication and swallowing in both children and adults. Throughout the subject, theoretical approaches to working effectively in partnership with individuals, families and models will be illustrated. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 1005 Restrictions Students much be enrolled in the 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline the typical trajectory of communication (speech, language, voice, fluency and multimodal communication) and swallowing development across the lifespan
Explain the features of common communication (speech, language, voice, fluency and multimodal communication) and swallowing disorders experienced by children and adults across the lifespan
Discuss the role of the Speech Pathologist in evidence-based assessment and treatment of communication and swallowing disorder across the lifespan
Translate evidence-based messages about communication and swallowing disorder into an accessible, multimodal format for a lay audience
Apply theoretical models of working with individuals, families, and communities in Speech Pathology contexts
Reflect on professional and ethical practices that positively influence communication and swallowing outcomes for individuals, families and communities
Propose strategies to optimise collaborative partnerships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and communities in the context of Speech Pathology assessment and management Subject Content 1. Neurological, cognitive, perceptual, and motor bases of communication and mealtimes
2. Social and environmental bases of communication and mealtimes
3. Typical development of communication (encompassing speech, language, voice, fluency, multimodal communication) and swallowing across the lifespan
4. Common disorders of communication (encompassing speech, language, voice, fluency, multimodal communication) and swallowing across the lifespan
5. Professional and ethical assessment and treatment of communication and swallowing disorders across the lifespan
6. Evidence-based Practice in transdisciplinary care
7. Theoretical models of working with individuals, families and communities
8. Frameworks of observation, clinical reasoning and reflection
9. Working in partnership with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
10. Accessible communication environments and strategies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1800 words 30 N Individual Y  Practical 8 minutes 50 N Group/Individual Y  Quiz 20 minutes per quiz 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Alison Purcell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)