Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 7008 The Cutting Edge: Advanced Studies in Humanities and Communication Arts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102298 Coordinator Brett Bennett Opens in new window Description The School of Humanities and Communication Arts teaches across a range of disciplines including Design, Music, Creative Arts, Communications and Media, Languages and Linguistics, Cultural and Social Analysis, Philosophy, Literary Studies, History and Political Thought, International Relations and Asian Studies, Indigenous Studies. This shell subject provides advanced academic training, advanced knowledge and intellectual development in the student's academic discipline by focusing on current debates in selected fields of study. The content of this subject will change according to fields of research represented in the cohort of each year, the issues of current concern in the discipline streams taught, and staff expertise. It will be taught in streamed, parallel seminars organised by broadly defined disciplinary grouping. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Research Studies/Master of Research or Master of Research. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate understanding of current debates in their field of study
Apply research methods across research topics, research methodologies, and research outcomes
Demonstrate advanced skills in analysis, synthesis, and exposition
Engage with professional academic research. Subject Content This subject provides advanced academic training, advanced knowledge and intellectual development in the student's academic discipline by focusing on current debates in selected fields of study. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual N  Essay 3,000 words
approximately 60 N Individual Y  Reflection Weekly contributions 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Society and Culture (CULT)