Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1029 Professional Experience 1: Introduction to Classrooms Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102117 Coordinator Jacqueline Humphries Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject is designed to introduce students to the characteristics of classrooms and curriculum implementation, Students will explore the structure of teaching, learning and curriculum in all key learning areas, with a particular focus on literacy and numeracy. They will examine the perspectives which influence the curriculum and the way in which curriculum is interpreted in the classroom environment. The subject will assist students in commencing the development of their professional portfolio with a ten day's practicum, focusing on professional experience and the work of teachers in primary classrooms. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 1009 - Professional Experience 1 Introduction to Classrooms Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the characteristics and elements of classrooms, teaching, learning and curriculum when designing and implementing lessons according to professional teaching standards. (Standards: 1.1.1, 1.4.1)
Apply outcomes-based planning in all subject areas. (Standards: 2.1.1, 2.2.1,2.3.1)
Implement a range of teaching strategies, spaces and resources (including Information and Communication Technologies) that support inclusive student participation and engage students in their learning. (Standards: 2.1.1, 2.2.1,2.3.1, 2.6.1)
Evaluate their placement identifying areas of personal professional knowledge and practice that needs improvement. (Standards: 6.1.1,6.2.1, 6.3.1 and 6.4.1)
Use a range of verbal and non-verbal communication and teaching strategies to support student engagement. (Standards: 3.5.1, 4.2.1, 4.3.1)
Provide timely and appropriate feedback to students about their learning. (Standards: 5.2.1, 5.5.1)
Plan and teach lessons using knowledge of student learning, content and effective teaching strategies (Standards: 1.1.1, 2.1.1, 2.3.1, 2.6.1, 3.2.1) Subject Content 1. Aboriginal issues in the classroom - addressing the learning styles of different learners
2. Orientation to primary schools - teachers' professional roles and responsibilities in the classroom and the school community
3. Ethics, expectations and protocols in regards to working within schools
4. How professional portfolios can be used to show professional growth and development in teaching - linking with the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers
5. Assessment and evaluation of teaching and learning practices.
6. Lesson plans revisited. Teachers as reflective practitioners Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of volunteer and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
 i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
 ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
 iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link
b) Students will need to:
 i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.det.nsw.edu.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
 ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
 iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT)
a) Students will need to:
i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
b) Students will need to:
i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 10 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance n/a S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 100 words per diary entry (10) S/U N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Teacher Education (TEAC)