Academic Handbook Current Edition EDUC 1012 Literacy and Numeracy for Educators (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mitchell Liddle Opens in new window Description The primary purpose of this subject is to equip students with personal literacy and numeracy skills necessary for academic success. This subject aims to develop students personal literacy and numeracy skills necessary for participating in academic and professional contexts. It also supports pre-service teachers as literate and numerate citizens to strengthen positive attitudes, skills, and knowledge about literacy and numeracy roles in everyday contexts. Students will have opportunities to develop their interpersonal, verbal, and non-verbal communication skills. These skills are integral to the inherent requirements of a graduate teacher who will be required to undertake the national literacy and numeracy test mandated by the Australian Government. As a pre-service teacher, students will also develop confidence and competence in their understanding of the roles of literacy and numeracy in society, with particular emphasis on problem-solving and effective communication in practical situations. Students will be provided with opportunities to develop critical self-awareness, self-regulation, and the ability to organise oneself as a self-directed learner. Essential elements of academic scholarship, including information media literacy, understanding assessment, and academic integrity, will be developed. School Education Discipline Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1038 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Develop personal literacy and numeracy skills and attitudes in academic and other contexts.
Demonstrate professional digital competence effectively and creatively for learning and assessment purposes.
Apply critical reading and writing skills that are appropriate to academic situations.
Apply critical numeracy skills to make discerning decisions about how to use mathematical knowledge and skills purposefully.
Evaluate and manage resources that are relevant to specific inquiry areas.
Use effective communication strategies to interact with individuals and groups for a range of purposes and audiences.
Analyse specific assessment requirements and implement effective task and time management strategies.
Recognise the importance of integrity to demonstrate respect, responsibility, and honesty in academic scholarship. Subject Content Personal literacy and numeracy skills and attitudes in contemporary contexts. 
Professional digital competence.
Critical reading and writing. 
Mathematics and critical numeracy skills in solving real-world, practical problems. 
The literate and numerate learner as an effective communicator and problem solver with a focus on creative, intercultural, and critical thinking. 
Task and time management. 
Academic Integrity. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 min quiz 300 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 800 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 5 mins per student in group 20 N Group N  Portfolio 800 (equivalent)  500 word reflection 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Education (EDUC)