Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7011 Formal and Functional Grammar Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102621 Coordinator Dariush Izadi Opens in new window Description This subject invites students to study the grammar of English from two related perspectives, formal grammar and functional grammar. The subject provides students with skills in the use of grammar in application to the analysis of a diverse range of texts. Students will develop an understanding of the structures and the functions of English across contexts. This skilled application will enhance their capacities as teachers of English, understanding how English varies in its use and allowing them to support their own students' skilled use of English across contexts. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 7012 - Functional Grammar LANG 7013 - Functional Grammar Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a working use of formal grammatical analyses of word structure and word classes, lexical semantics, phrasal structures, clausal and sentence structures in English.
Demonstrate a working use the ideas of register and genre in application to the analysis of spoken and written language, and experiential and textual analyses of clauses in English.
Apply grammatical analysis to texts and consider the pedagogical implications and uses of what the analysis reveals. Subject Content 1. Comparative introduction to formal and functional approaches to English Grammar.
2. Formal grammatical analysis including, word structure and word classes, lexical semantics, phrasal structures, clause and sentence structures.
3. Functional grammatical analysis including register and genre, spoken and written language experiential and textual analysis of clauses.
4. Pedagogical applications and uses of grammatical analyses including an exploration of a range of text types. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 400 words 30 N Individual Y  Discourse Analysis 400 words 30 N Individual Y  Discourse Analysis 700 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Dariush Izadi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Diploma in TESOL (1801) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts in TESOL (1800) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)