Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 7006 Contemporary Issues for Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management Credit Points 10 Coordinator Joseph Cheer Opens in new window Description The world in which we live is undergoing rapid change – socially, environmentally, and politically. Responding to such change requires the constant renewal of our knowledge and skills. This subject explores a range of issues currently facing professionals and researchers working in tourism, hospitality and event management, nationally and internationally. Students who complete this subject are provided an opportunity to deepen their understanding of a chosen issue by preparing and presenting a seminar. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 6002 - Critical Issues for Heritage and Tourism Futures Assessed Seminars Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Assess critical and/or controversial issues facing the tourism, hospitality and event sectors, nationally and internationally.
2. Develop and express a critical position on an issue related to tourism, hospitality and/or events to stimulate collective and constructive debate.
3. Communicate an in-depth understanding of an issue using relevant and illustrative case studies.
4. Organise and present a seminar session. Subject Content 1. Tourism, hospitality, events and climate change. 
2. Tourism, hospitality, events and environmental, social and political context 
3. Tourism, hospitality, events and sustainable futures. 
4. Tourism, hospitality, events and international development. 
5. Tourism, hospitality, events and urban transformations. 
6. Tourism, hospitality, events and Indigenous culture 
7. Tourism, hospitality, events and migration. 
8. Tourism, hospitality, events and the economic context Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minute presentation + 10 minutes Q&A 20 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Joseph Cheer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Sustainable Tourism and Visitor Economies, Major (0320) Tourism (TOUR)