Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1030 Pancasila Credit Points 5 Coordinator Jayne Bye Opens in new window Description The Pancasila subject equips students with essential guidelines for studying and analysing state and national issues through the lens of Pancasila values, the foundational philosophy of the Republic of Indonesia. During the introductory session, students will explore the lives of key national figures from the independence movement, seeking examples that embody Pancasila values. Subsequently, students will examine some real-world applications of Pancasila values by looking into contemporary state issues. By engaging in discussions and analyses focusing on national values and Pancasila, students are encouraged to foster a positive attitude towards Pancasila as the cornerstone of the state and the guiding ideology of the Indonesian nation. School Business Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions This subject is only available to students enrolled at Surabaya campus Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 
1. Examine the relationships, similarities or differences in ideas among the multifaceted notions of Indonesian nationality and Pancasila values as articulated by historical figures or key actors. 2. Interpret knowledge from a carefully chosen historical figure or influential actor to gain deeper insights of the diverse facets of Indonesian nationality and the principles of Pancasila. 3. Use different ways to organise, compare, study, or test examples that show how Pancasila can solve problems in Indonesian society. 4. Offer assessment, opinion, suggestions for improvements, praise or awards grounded in Pancasila values to reflect on issues faced by students. 5. Apply Pancasila values within the broader contexts of society, nation, and state. Subject Content 1. Introduction
2. Indonesian Consensus – BPUPK Assembly- Soekarno’s Speech
3. Indo-Peranakan/Cross Breed Contribution for Nation Indonesia
4. Religion Contribution for Nation Indonesia
5. Youth and Youth Pledge 1928 and It's Contribution for Nation Indonesia
6. Women Movement Contribution for Nation Indonesia
7. Pancasila Philosophy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1000 words 35 N Individual Y  Quiz 60 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2 weeks 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 25 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Surabaya Semester 1 (2024) Surabaya On-site Subject Contact Jayne Bye Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Data Science (3769) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Other Society and Culture (CULT)