Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3046 Advanced Physiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301355 Coordinator Sabine Piller Opens in new window Description From 2020 this subject replaces 300851 - Advanced  Physiology. Physiology is the study of the way in which a living organism and its bodily parts function. This subject will examine integrative aspects of physiological control mechanisms comprising multiple organ systems and mechanisms of adaptation to environmental factors. It will focus on regulatory function of ion channels, neurophysiology, sensory physiology, motor control, metabolism, cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Students will have the opportunity to independently research, in depth, an area of physiology pertinent to their interest. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 2034 - Human Systems Physiology 1 Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge Demonstrated sound understanding of physiological systems of the human body. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the major (principle) ion channels present in organisms, and evaluate their functional significance in regulating body function under normal and pathological conditions (e.g. channelopathies).
Explain the function of sensory organs, neural encoding, processing and analysis of sensory information, particularly in the context of motor control and perception.
Examine how sensorimotor mechanisms are implemented in motor control strategies.
Evaluate the interaction between organ systems in achieving optimal regulation of the body function during exercise.
Analyse the role of homeostasis in adaptation to a wide range of living conditions, food sources and extreme environments.
Create, deliver, and peer evaluate oral presentations competently. Subject Content 1. Exercise Physiology
2. Exercise Metabolism
3. Electrophysiology, ion channels, channelopathies;
4. Sensory physiology;
5. Motor control mechanisms;
6. Examples of the most recent discoveries and research trends in the field of physiology. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 25 N Individual N  Quiz 10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 30 minutes 15 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sabine Piller Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sabine Piller Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)