Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 2002 Foundations of Medicine 2 Credit Points 80 Legacy Code 400862 Coordinator Neeshaan Abrahams Opens in new window Description This is a 80 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (40 credit points in each term). This subject integrates the biomedical sciences with clinical skills. Students continue to build their knowledge of the structure and function of the human body, particularly:  renal, musculoskeletal, neuroscience, reproduction and development, endocrinology, infectious disease, immunology and cancer. In addition, students will gain an understanding of the human context of health and disease, global health, medical professionalism, the quality and safety of healthcare, evidence based practice and research skills. On clinical days, students will participate in bedside tutorials to further develop their skills in history and examination of body systems and will also learn how to carry out basic clinical procedures. The subject outline is available from the link on the left-hand menu. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 1002 Incompatible Subjects MEDI 2003 - Clinical Sciences 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4641 Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery or 4647 Bachelor of Medical Research. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Provides patient centred care as a member of an interdisciplinary team under appropriate supervision: Communication, Patient Assessment, Patient Management
Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia: Determinants of Health & Illness, Health Needs, Health Care Systems, Health Promotion, Indigenous Health
Demonstrates and develops professional skills, responsibilities and attitudes: Ethical Practice, Teamwork, Learning and Teaching, Personal Needs, Medical humanities
Develops and applies a sound understanding of the scientific foundations (social, basic and clinical) of medical practice: Applies Science to Practice, Uses Evidence, Research Subject Content 1. The Scientific Basis of Medicine integrates understanding of the structure and function of the human body. This will be addressed at the level of organ systems, tissues, cells and molecules. The scientific basis of the following topics will be discussed: renal system, musculoskeletal system, neuroscience, reproduction and development, endocrinology, infectious disease, immunology and cancer.
2. In the Personal Professional and Development (PPD) stream there is a focus on medical professionalism, professional standards and codes of conduct, legal obligations of students and medical practitioners and identifying and addressing own learning and personal needs
3. Quality and Safety tutorials are part of PPD, looking at identifying risk, the way errors occur in medical practice, managing error as a medical student
4. Population Health will explore statistics, translational research, epidemiology, outbreaks, health promotion and other challenges to public health.
5. Introduction to Clinical Medicine and Clinical Procedural Skills will continue to extend the history and examination of body systems and will introduce students to clinical procedures. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 30 minutes S/U N Individual N  Applied Project Compiled throughout 1H S/U Y Individual Y  Literature Review 1500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Throughout 1H S/U Y Individual Y  Essay 500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice 1 hour S/U N Individual N  Applied Project Compiled throughout 2H S/U Y Individual Y  Essay 2000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Throughout 2H S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Throughout 2H S/U Y Individual Y  Participation Throughout subject S/U Y Individual Y  Learning Contract Throughout subject S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Simulation 6 stations S/U Y Individual Y  Proposal 1500 words S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Neeshaan Abrahams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Neeshaan Abrahams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)