Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3024 Human Resource and Industrial Relations Strategy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200740 Coordinator Terri Mylett Opens in new window Description Students in 'Human Resource and Industrial Relations Strategy' analyse the human resource and industrial relations strategies of the major employment relations stakeholders. While the principal focus is on the organisational level of analysis and on the strategic interventions introduced by management, the subject also analyses the strategic roles of government, trade unions, and employer associations. Through a range of learning activities, students examine the relationship between business strategies and HR/IR strategies, strategic HR/IR interventions, the concept of strategic choice as it concerns stakeholders and the evaluation of strategy. Students also engage with the development of human resource management and industrial relations as a professional field and consider ethics and professional standards. School Business Discipline Industrial Relations Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 1023 OR
BUSM 1021 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4824 - Human Resource Strategy LGYA 4823 - Industrial Relations Strategy Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the role of strategy in contemporary human resource management and industrial relations.
Apply the implications of the various contemporary models of human resource and industrial relations strategy to the practice of human resource management and industrial relations.
Critically assess the role of principal stakeholders (trade unions, government and employer associations) as strategic actors in the business environment.
Evaluate organisation's application of strategic human resource and industrial relations interventions.
Critically assess the role of human resource management and Industrial relations professionals and ethics, in order to engage responsibly in work and civic life on the basis of respect for diversity and social justice principles. Subject Content Perspectives on employment relations.
Business strategy and the link to HRM.
Approaches to HR strategy.
Linking SHRM to competitive advantage.
Planning and building a workforce: talent management.
Culture, power and voice in the workplace.
Workforce performance and the "Black Box" of HRM.
SHRM in industrial contexts.
Strategy and structure.
Stakeholders and change: the role of the state.
Responses to change: trade union and employer association strategies.
Professional practice: evaluation and ethics in employment relations. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 Words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 500 Words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1500 Words 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Terri Mylett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Terri Mylett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Terri Mylett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Terri Mylett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Human Resource Management, Testamur Major (T041)