Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7004 Bushfire Fighting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200500 Coordinator Grahame Douglas Opens in new window Description This subject describes the techniques, hardware and extinguishing agents used to fight and control bushfires and focuses on the logistics involved in ensuring safe, efficient and effective control. The content includes bushfire fighting strategies in the context of rural and interface environments, hazard reduction and brigade structure arrangements. The role of planning in supporting firefighting through water supply and access is also considered as are the findings from various Public Inquiries. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge This subject assumes that the student has undertaken undergraduate study in building surveying, planning or related areas or has gained the equivalent building construction knowledge by working in the construction industry in an appropriate capacity for at least four years. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the techniques, hardware and extinguishing agents used to fight and control bushfires;
Explain the varying logistics used in both the rural and urban interface during bushfires;
Evaluate the role of planning in supporting the firefighting effort during bushfires;
Evaluate the role of hazard reduction and its management for reducing fuels;
Implement firefighting strategies and incident control used to manage bushfire events. Subject Content Fire fighting techniques, hardware and extinguishing agents;
The rural and urban interface;
Planning and undertaking fire fighting operations;
Fire fighting strategies;
Hazard reduction management;
Hazard reduction;
Water supplies and access for developments;
Role of public inquiries Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Essay 1.000 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)