Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7026 Power Modalities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400996 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  A thorough understanding of the range of power modalities available when performing gynaecological surgery is a key fundamental concept to gynaecologists performing such surgery.  Students undertaking this subject are expected to have a working knowledge on power modalities at commencement.  This subject will extend their knowledge in theoretical and practical aspects.  Students will explore the physics behind various power modalities, its physiological effect on human tissue and potential complications related to each power modality.   Students will review and compare the current range of commercially available power modalities, assisting them to be competent with its use in a clinical setting and tailoring their use dependent on the type of surgery and pathology.   By enrolling in this subject, the student will be expected to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects of power modalities, exploring the nuances of surgical planning and techniques. This will extend the student's knowledge so they can safely and effectively use various power modalities in gynaecological surgery. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4766 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery or 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of a Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) with satisfactory completion of RANZCOG written examination as per enrolment restrictions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the physics of various power modalities and its effect on human tissue
Evaluate the current range of available power modalities, their potential complications and strategies to minimize risk to patients
Assess the use of different power modalities in different surgeries and pathologies, tailoring their use for optimal patient outcomes
Employ safe principles to assist in the effective use of various power modalities in a clinical setting
Review the medical literature on specific aspects of power modalities in a clinical setting Subject Content Physics of various power modalities and its effect on human tissue
Potential complications that may arise from the use of various power modalities (some of which are specific to each power modality) and strategies to minimize the risks to patients
Explore the current range of power modalities available to gynaecological surgeons
Compare the use of different power modalities in different surgeries and pathologies, tailoring their use for optimal patient outcomes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Total 5,000 words: 1a. Literature Review 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. Reflection ~ 1,000 words (SLOs 2, 5) 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery (4766) Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)