Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7055 Experiment Design and Project Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301371 Coordinator Mark Williams Opens in new window Description Essential to a career in any branch of science is the ability to design the experiments of a project and manage this project to an outcome. This subject provides an introduction to the general theory of experiment design. The subject reviews the role of randomisation and replication in experiment design, considers the design techniques of constancy, blocking, and presents a number of experimental designs. This subject also covers the tools and techniques for effectively managing projects. Topics include development of project plans; estimation of time and resources; risk analysis and management; scheduling and control; resource allocation; project tracking; project closure and review. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Devise a series of experiments to address project or research objectives, including selection of an appropriate study design, data source or data collection plan, and a strategy for analysis.
Critically assess results and propose further series of experiments.
Appraise how project management concepts provide improvements in strategic planning and management of projects.
Apply knowledge and techniques to project planning, risk assessment and project management.
Evaluate procedures for monitoring, controlling, and completing projects. Subject Content 1.Making research decisions. Reviewing the literature, forming research questions and hypotheses, operationalising constructs, choosing variables.
2.Experimental/research design: planning a research project: Experimental and quasi-experimental designs, between and within-subjects experimental designs.
3.Interpretation of results, analysis strategy, experiment re-design.
4.Project life cycle, selection and initiation, project planning.
5.Resource scheduling, budgeting.
6.Evaluating and managing risk.
7.Project progress and performance measurement, closure and audit. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 60 minutes 20 N Individual N  Short Answer 2,500 words 40 N Individual N  Poster 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture, Testamur Major (T108) Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068) Sustainable Water Futures, Testamur Major (T152)