Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3047 Speech Pathologists Working with Adults, Families and Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401433 Coordinator Rebecca Smith Opens in new window Description The subject adopts a problem based learning approach towards speech pathology management of communication, hearing and mealtimes through collaboration with individual adults, families and communities. Students will synthesise their knowledge and skills in adult speech, language, voice, fluency and swallowing and multimodal communication in speech pathology practice to manage complex cases.  They will engage with problem based learning experiences that require integration of theoretical and evidence based intervention approaches with collaborative person and family and centred practice. Students will critically evaluate of models of service delivery in response to community needs. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2019 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3049 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology, 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours), or 4788 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the clinical utility and effectiveness of individual, targeted and universal assessment and intervention strategies in Speech Pathology Practice
Plan and implement an assessment of communication and swallowing for an adult client at developing level competency
Integrate, analyse and interpret assessment information to diagnose the nature and severity of a communication and/or swallowing/mealtime disorder
Formulate and rationalise intervention plans to address disorders of communication and/or swallowing /mealtimes in adult clients using best available evidence, sound clinical reasoning and cultural responsiveness
Implement and evaluate outcomes of speech pathology intervention for disorders of communication and/or swallowing /mealtime with adult clients at developing level competency
Create professional, clinical resources to plan and provide quality Speech Pathology services to adult clients, their families and communities Subject Content Working with adults in diverse professional contexts, including private practice, hospitals, not for profit organisations, rural settings Exploring person centred and family centred practice with complex cases. Evidence based models of service delivery applied to caseload management with adults.
Problem-based based clinical reasoning in response to complex speech pathology practice settings including rural and remote settings, aged care facilities, workplaces, group homes and palliative care.
Collaborating with communication partners, interdisciplinary professionals, therapy aides and volunteers to optimise individual’s communication and mealtime experiences.
Facilitating transitions between health care services and the community; access and resource issues.
Working with adults and families for whom English is an additional language or dialect .
Managing complex professional, ethical and legal issues with adults and families, including abuse and neglect, conflict resolution, professional boundaries and death and dying.
Working with adults with lifelong or progressive communication and swallowing disorders.
Advocating for communication and swallowing rights for adults and older adults. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 4 PBL cases and 2 individualised resources (completed in class) S/U Y Individual Y  Simulation 1 hour 50 Y Individual Y  Professional Task 10 minute presentation (x4 cases) and 1x 500 word reflection 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Belinda Kenny Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)