Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1061 Islam: Past, Present and Future Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102823 Coordinator Vassilios Adrahtas Opens in new window Description This is an introductory level subject that forms part of the Islamic Studies major. The subject will contribute to the development of sound disciplinary expertise in the academic study of Islam - historical, anthropological, and sociological. The subject will familiarise students with critical approaches to the study of Islam that touch on its origins and development, formation of traditions, social structures and institutions, and with issues regarding Islam in the Western context. The subject will aid students in developing cross-cultural awareness and interpersonal communication skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1047 - Understanding Islam and Muslim Societies HUMN 1048 - Understanding Islam and Muslim Societies (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the basic beliefs and practices that constitute the Islamic faith.
Identify Islamic doctrine in relevant historical contexts and distinguish the diversity of Muslim societies and cultures.
Interpret key discoures within the academic study of Islam. Subject Content 1. The Academic Study of Islam
2. Key Questions
3. The Sources
4. Search of Origins
5. The Revelation
6. The Messenger
7. Witnessing and Reports
8. Women in Islam
9. The Ulama
10. The Sufi
11. Religion and Politics
12. Modernity Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 500 words equivalent 25 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Vassilios Adrahtas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Vassilios Adrahtas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Law (LAWS) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Studies of Religion, Minor (0200)