Academic Handbook Current Edition PHYS 2005 Classical Physics and Advanced Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301393 Coordinator Timothy Stait-Gardner Opens in new window Description This subject explains in depth aspects of classical mechanics related to forced and damped oscillations. Physical waves are introduced and formalized by describing applications of the wave equation to mechanical systems and electromagnetic radiation. Interference and diffraction are detailed using electromagnetic fields (physical optics). Main technological applications of mechanical oscillations and electromagnetic waves are also explained, such as the atomic force microscope, laser, optical tweezers and the zeta-sizer. School Science Discipline Physics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PHYS 1006 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6024 - Applied Instrumentation in Nanotechnology Assumed Knowledge Introductory mechanics: Newton’s laws, work, conservation of energy and momentum. Introductory Electrostatics: Electric forces and Coulomb’s law; DC electricity, voltage, current, resistance, Ohm’s law, electric power, circuit laws. Introduction to Magnetic fields: production by magnets & currents, magnetic forces on currents & charges; Induced EMF, Faraday’s law and electrical generators; AC current & voltage, peak & rms values, capacitance and inductance. Learning Outcomes Explain physical principles underlying oscillatory phenomena and major instrument operation.
Conduct basic experiments implementing the scientific method.
Apply the theoretical principles governing the phenomena under study in a laboratory set-up and the error propagation rules.
Analyse the results of study and investigations in written form.
Apply safety principles during laboratory experiments.
Problem solve and apply critical skills towards scientific hypotheses.
phenomena and major instrument operation. Subject Content Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Physics and Astronomy (PHYS) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119)