Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0053 Communication Skills for Health Science 2 (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900678 Coordinator Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to improve the English language skills of Health Science and Nursing students through dynamic and engaging teaching methodology. The subject further develops foundational skills students possess and introduces critical analysis. The use of authentic genres and writing techniques common in Academic writing in the fields of Health Science and Nursing lead to the improvement of critical literacy skills related to spoken and written genres which are typical in the Health Science and Nursing professions. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 0051 Equivalent Subjects LANG 0032 English for Tertiary Study 2 (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0002 Academic English 2 (WSTC)
LANG 0033 English for Tertiary Study 2 (WSTC) LANG 0039 Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (WSTC Prep) LANG 0040 Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (WSTC) LANG 0003 Academic English (WSTC Prep)
LANG 0005 Academic English (WSTC)
COMM 1027 Principles of Professional Communication (WSTC)
LANG 0050 Essential Literacy for Construction professionals II (WSTC Prep) Restrictions This subject is only available to College students enrolled in the Undergraduate Preparation Programs. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an ability to critically read, summarise, analyse, synthesise and make meaning from academic and industry-related texts in Health Science and Nursing
Use sophisticated aspects of Academic Writing, including different genres of Academic English
Identify and critique a theoretical framework in Health Science and Nursing
Cite arguments and evidence using the conventions of academic research
Produce a well-structured, logical, coherent and cohesive response to writing tasks using appropriate academic language structures
Demonstrate an ability to communicate orally in formal context, including appropriate selection of material, clear organisation and effective presentation.
Work effectively in a small group learning environment Subject Content 1. Academic and professional communication in the fields of Health Science and Nursing
2. Academic writing skills: developing and applying features of academic and professional language
3. Academic reading skills: identifying, highlighting and applying key ideas, arguments and evidence
4. Academic writing skills: utilising various research techniques
5. Academic Integrity: the importance and application of referencing, citation and paraphrasing
6. Academic writing skills: summarising, paraphrasing, synthesising
7. Academic writing skills: the report writing process including the achievement of coherence and cohesion
8. Critical thinking for academic and professional work within the Health Science and Nursing fields
9. Oral Presentation skills: language and presentation techniques for presentations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 words 20 N Individual N  Report 400 words 20 N Individual N  Report 1200 words 35 N Group/Individual N  Viva Voce Scripted and voiced over power point	4-5 minutes plus 500 words script 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG) Undergraduate Preparation Program – Nursing/Health Science (9031) University Foundation Studies Standard - 2 Terms (WSTC) (9019)