Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3050 Speech Pathology Practice 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401428 Coordinator Rayhana El-Rifai Opens in new window Description This second clinical practice subject will operationalise the knowledge and skills developed in the first three years of speech pathology study to provide appropriate and holistic care for clients of speech pathology across the lifespan, their families and communities. Students will undertake 21 days of supervised clinical practice in either adult or paediatric care (that which was not completed in Speech Pathology Practice 1). Clinical Practice will be taken in a relevant setting from among a range of authentic speech pathology contexts including, but not limited to, hospitals, community health settings, schools / preschools / day-care, disability and/or not for profit organisations, private practice or on-campus. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include communication, documentation, reflection and professional and ethical behaviour. In addition, students will develop skills in client assessment, interpretation of findings, planning and implementation of speech pathology services, education, advocacy and advice.  Students will be working at an intermediate level of competency. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3049 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology, 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours), or 4788 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours). Assumed Knowledge Students will need to have sound understanding of development and disorder of communication and swallowing across the lifespan. Students will be expected to independently conduct common speech pathology assessments such as oromusculature and cranial nerve assessment, case history interview, speech and language screening (developmental and acquired) as well as transcribe and analyse speech and language using accepted conventions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan, implement, evaluate and modify speech pathology assessment and management services for clients across the lifespan to a competency level that is ‘Intermediate’ as evidenced by the COMPASS ® Competency Assessment Tool 
Employ communication, professionalism, reasoning and lifelong learning at an ‘Entry Level’ competence as evidenced by the COMPASS ® Competency Assessment Tool 
Practice safe and ethical speech pathology practice across all contexts 
Critically discuss the assessment, management, progress and prognosis of a selected client in line with ethical and medico-legal expectations of the profession
Critically reflect on emerging professional role and competence in the assessment, management, progress and prognosis of a selected client using evidence-based approaches to clinical reasoning and reflection Subject Content During clinical placements: 2. During workshops: Students will engage in interactive learning experiences that integrate academic and clinical competencies in the following topics: Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 21 days of placement (8 hrs per day), and COMPASS task S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes  S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio Collation of written evidence demonstrating range, scope and level of clinical competence achieved by the end of 3rd Year S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Belinda Kenny Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)