Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3018 Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101173 Coordinator Margot Dunphy Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge they are developing during their studies to tasks within a workplace (the host organisation). The subject may involve substantial contact with the public through workplace placements and, for this reason, it is equivalent to a professional placement. The subject is recommended for students in their third year of study (or part time equivalent). School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0737 - Advertising Internship LGYB 0070 - Professional Internship - Public Relations LGYB 0119 - Professional Internship - Journalism LGYB 0074 - Media Co-Productions DESN 3009 Professional Practice Design Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points of study in the currently enrolled program and a minimum of 40 credit points from the Advertising, Journalism, Public Relations or Media Arts Production majors. NOTE: These restrictions do not apply to programs 1655 Bachelor of Arts (Dean's Scholars), 1692 Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars, 1739 Bachelor of International Studies (Dean's Scholars), 1822 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean's Scholars and 1823 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) Dean's Scholars. Students who have enrolled in the sub-major SM1125 Advertising Studies must have successfully completed all 40 credit points of this sub-major prior to enrolling in this subject. Sydney City Campus students are required to obtain written approval from the program Contact (details below) prior to enrolling in this subject. Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have thorough knowledge of professional skills required in their field of study, commensurate with those required to participate in a workplace. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate and apply integrated discipline (possibly including technical) knowledge across a relevant academic specialisation in a workplace context with depth in one or more core business disciplines
Apply technical and technological skills appropriate and effective for communication purposes and contexts
Investigate professional issues and situations through the effective analysis, evaluation and synthesis of theory and practice
Exercise independent judgment and initiative in adapting and applying knowledge and skills for effective planning, problem solving and decision making in diverse contexts Subject Content - The subject is designed for students in their third year of study (or part time equivalent). In addition to the following points, prospective students must apply for entry to their area supervisor.
- It is The responsibility of students to nominate suitable workplaces. students must provide adequate details of The placement they have been able to organise. students will be expected to play An active role in organising their own placement, either directly to workplaces or through The Western Sydney university placement Service. While, on occasion, academic staff may be able to help find A placement through contacts with employers, as well as offers from employers seeking students, students should not rely on anyone but themselves to arrange A suitable work placement.
Students will need to
1. find a suitable placement
2. discuss their choice with the program coordinator (phone or email will be acceptable)
3. complete the workplace agreement form Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Summary 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Portfolio 5 minutes 50 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 2 pages 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Diao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Margot Dunphy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advertising, Major (0159) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Journalism, Major (0069) Public Relations, Major (0160) Screen Media, Major (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)