Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7009 Leadership and Change Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400414 Coordinator Rachel Gregory-Wilson Opens in new window Description Within the context of a society where change is ongoing, leadership is required in order to achieve optimum outcomes.  Students in this subject will be encouraged to critically explore leadership styles, leadership and change theories, leadership in learning organisations and the community within a primary health care framework.   This subject will enable students to assess both the internal and external environments of organisations, communities and individuals as the need for change is identified, planned and implemented.  The subject identifies the central strategies necessary for the development of leaders who are able to achieve sustainable change outcomes. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYC 0566 - Processes of Change Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4569 Master of Primary Health Care or 4694 Master of Primary Health Care. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically apply the principles of leadership theory to the development of effective individual and organisational leadership strategies for practice within a primary health care approach;
Reflect on the relationship between leadership and management;
Understand and incorporate the importance of emotional intelligence as a factor in leading sustainable change processes;
Critically examine the empowering role of education in facilitating change outcomes;
Critically examine the relationship between leadership, organisational culture and sustainable change;
Critically explore the effects of internal and external environmental factors on organisations as they move through change processes. Subject Content Theories and styles of leadership.
Empowerment, motivation and sustainable change.
Critical reflection and change outcomes.
Learning organisations and leadership.
Mentorship in leadership development.
Internal and external environmental influences on change processes. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual   Analysis of workplace or community change strategy 3,000 words 60 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4782) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Other Health (HLTH)