Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7027 Leading Change Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102161 Coordinator Loshini Naidoo Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject explores change and leadership through a range of contexts. In this subject we critically analyse cultural, structural and political dimensions of change in organisations, systems and communities. This subject is grounded in leadership models that feature collaborative and relationship enhancing approaches to enable purposeful change. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the nature of change, change agency and the role of individuals, organisations and systems
Critique change strategies, including media, contexts, systems and impacts.
Articulate a holistic perspective on leaders as activists, advocates and capacity builders within change processes
Analyse models of leadership for productive change
Use cases to apply theoretical understandings about leadership and change
Evaluate a range of effective strategies, processes and skills that may be used to develop and maintain constructive teamwork;
Evaluate a case study of successful change leadership
Evaluate reflective and ethical approaches to case study conduct Subject Content 1. Understanding and critically analysing change and change contexts.
2. Theory and practice of leadership for change.
3. Critiquing and building models of leadership for activism, advocacy and capacity building
4. Application of understandings about leadership and change to specific cases and examples.
5. Building strategic partnerships and active team work.
6. Using and developing case studies to examine change.
7. Reflective and ethical approaches to case study conduct. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group N  Reflection 1,000 words 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Educational Leadership, Testamur Major (T134) Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Professional Practice (1912) Leadership and Management, Testamur Major (T139) Leadership, Testamur Major (T136) Master of Education (1911) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)