Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1021 Media Cultures and Industries (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700180 Coordinator Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the concept of media in terms of how it has changed, how it works and its impact on our lives and society. It builds the necessary foundation for further theoretical and practical study and understanding of the media in future years. Its approach brings practice-based research together with experiential learning and theoretical reflection. At the conclusion of this subject students will be able to demonstrate a fundamental critical understanding of the media. In addition, students will have developed their digital literacy through the creation of digital creative works. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 1020 - Media Cultures and Industries
COMM 1002 - Approaches to Communication
COMM 1003 - Approaches to Communication (WSTC) Restrictions Students enrolled in Integrated programs must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects listed in the program structure prior to enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain what media is, using examples and academic ideas
Make arguments about the impact of media on life
Demonstrate media literacy through the creation of their own media content Subject Content Content that defines the media, in terms of its historical development/evolution.
Intellectual arguments about the impact of media on life (in terms, for example, of race, gender and industry).
Content that develops foundational digital media literacy skills (applications include the production of mobile video, photography and online content).
Content that teaches and demonstrates critical reflection skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1000 words (total) 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 1200 words 40 N Individual N  Peer Review 800 words 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts. Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication (exit only) (7043) Diploma in Communication Extended - Communication (7148) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009)