Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3020 Field Education 1 Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102782 Coordinator Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to participate in a structured and supervised field placement experience, providing the opportunity for students to combine their knowledge of theory and application of their skills into practice in the human services sector. Placements will be offered in direct or indirect service work with a wide range of client groups and communities in the government and nongovernment sectors. A variety of social work and community welfare-related agencies in and around Sydney will be utilised. Students will attend skills based workshops and complete 400 hours of placement in accordance with accreditation requirements of the Australian Association of Social Workers (AASW) guidelines. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 2017 Incompatible Subjects WELF 2005 - Field Education 1 WELF 3004 - Community Welfare Field Education Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 1665 Bachelor of Community Welfare, 1666 Bachelor of Social Work or 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work and must have successfully completed 120 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain and demonstrate the different communication skills needed for working with a range of clients and volunteers in human services organisations.
Prepare for work within the human services sector through developing a network for future employment and career planning after successful completion of 400 hours of practicum.
Demonstrate an advanced level of knowledge and skills in human services practice including the role of supervision in the field placement and workplace.
Critically evaluate their own learning and practice, and evaluate their readiness for entering the human services workforce; understand concepts of self-care.
Demonstrate an ability to critically assess the need for appropriate services and be able to take action and develop these services. Subject Content 1. 400 hours of supervised practicum in a welfare/human services agency.
2. Intervention skills: casework, group work, community work, including assertiveness and strategies and techniques for working with a range of client/consumer groups.
3. Professional communication skills, including telephone skills and report writing skills, critical thinking and analysis, networking and referral skills.
4. Community needs and human services available to people within a particular region.
5. The nature of supervision, peer support, assessment and self-care on placement.
6. Ethical practice in human services work; consideration of the values and ideology in practice frameworks.
7. Working with volunteers and bureaucracies.
8. Work Health and Safety issues including dealing with violence in the workplace.
9. Methods of critical reflection on process of intervention in light of personal agency ideology and social welfare values.
10. Debriefing from the placement experience; integrating theory with practice and future learning. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 400 hours S/U Y Individual Y  Report 2,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 1,000 words integrated presentation and portfolio S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Justine O'Sullivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)