Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7053 MR Body and Pelvis Imaging Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401327 Coordinator James Nol Opens in new window Description MR Body and Pelvis Imaging is a core subject in the course of Advanced Imaging (MRI). The subject provides students with in-depth knowledge of Body and Pelvis anatomy and the relevant protocols to create Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) sequences for the anatomical regions in the Thoracic, Abdominal and Pelvic Region for different clinical examinations. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating the MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. The subject is offered to all eligible students with a varied pathway for the two weeks clinical component relevant to their undergraduate discipline. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site. School Medicine Discipline Radiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) MEDI 7051 AND
MEDI 7049 Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points and Students must be enrolled in 4767 Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) or 4768 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Imaging (MRI). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically examine sectional chest, abdominal and pelvic anatomy that can be produced on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) equipment
Critique chest, abdominal and pelvic scanning principles and their common applications for different clinical problems
Set up the departmental chest, abdominal and pelvis MRI protocols
Present new Body and Pelvis imaging algorithm and techniques to peers and health professionals
Critique the use of the different equipment design for body and pelvis imaging and the different MR frequencies required to achieve the best outcome for the patient
Review image interpretation cases and analyse operation and technical setup to achieve high-level diagnostic confidence during clinical placement
Reflect on clinical and operational pathways based on the MR Body and Pelvis imaging Subject Content 1. Anatomy of neck, chest, and torso, including chest wall and ribs, Magnetic Resonance (MR) mediastinum and pulmonary Angiography (MRPA), liver, kidney, adrenal, Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), small bowel and appendix imaging; female pelvis and prostate.
2. Common pathology.
3. Selection of appropriate sequences and imaging protocol setup.
4. Contrast and non-contrast Body and Pelvis imaging techniques.
5. Clinical Training via 3 different pathways.
a. Medical Officer - Image Interpretation and observation of practical work and Interaction with an MRI team.
b. Medical Radiation Practitioner - Hands on Practical training and basic Image interpretation.
c. Allied Health - Interaction with the MRI Operations team, close observation of the operation and patient management and basic Image interpretation. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Note: Due to Covid restrictions the special requirements have been removed, July 2021. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words x 2 30 N Individual Y  Literature Review 2000 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words each x 8 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact James Nol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Advanced Imaging (MRI) (exit only) (4768) Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) (4767) Medical Studies (MEDI)