Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3031 Mentored Practice in Design (Industry) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Sasha Alexander Opens in new window Description Mentored Practice in Design (Industry) is designed to provide students with professional practice experience working with an industry mentor and a multi-disciplinary team. Students prepare for their experience and create an action plan documenting their skills and knowledge with the aim of enhancing these throughout the semester. This prepares them for a reflective report and mentorship presentation. Students are assisted finding a suitable mentor in areas in which they aspire to be prospective employees or in related fields of professional interest across a 10-week program responding to the changing Future of Work. This subject can be undertaken during any semester during the year and can most likely be completed during semester breaks either in Winter or Summer. Students gain valuable insights in the professional practice setting of themselves and of industry expectations, providing opportunities for employment. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR3015 Industrial Experience
ENGR3027 Mentored Practice in Design Innovation
ENGR3028 Mentored Practice in Design Innovation Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3729 Bachelor of Design and Technology, 3730 Bachelor of Industrial Design or 3731 Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) and have successfully completed 160 credit points. Learning Outcomes 1. Demonstrate planning and goal setting skills with a comprehensive plan for work experience.
2. Critically reflect on personal and professional skills required for the workplace context.
3. Report on the experience applying academic learning of Industrial Design in the workplace.
4. Provide evidence of working effectively and inclusively with others in multi-disciplinary teams and the workplace culture.
5. Assess work performance using self-assessment and feedback from others reflecting on actions taken in relation to feedback. 
6. Manage the self to produce documentation requirements and deliverables in both the academic and workplace settings. 
7. Communicate in a clear, concise manner to a diverse audience in a range of formats, verbal and written, following ethical and academic integrity guidelines. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 5 pages 15 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Report 3000 words 35 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sasha Alexander Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sasha Alexander Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)