Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7021 Mental Health Aspects of Allergic Diseases Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401252 Coordinator Natalie Morrison Opens in new window Description Allergic diseases are chronic conditions which can influence psychosocial wellbeing.  Early recognition of effects on mental health is essential to ensure optimal support and enhance quality of life.  This subject provides students with knowledge and skills to address mental health concerns in patients with allergic diseases.  Modules will cover the psychological effects of living with chronic disease, anxiety and depression, somatic symptom disorders and eating disorders.  Students will use online lectures, case discussion and evidence-based materials to explore key elements and strategies for effective mental health assessment and management in clinical allergy practice. School Medicine Discipline Internal Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7002 AND
MEDI 7003 OR
MEDI 7001 Co-requisite(s) MEDI 7009 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases). Students must be medical practitioners registered with AHPRA or the New Zealand Medical Board. Assumed Knowledge A completed medical degree (MBBS, MBChB or equivalent qualification) is required and current practice as a clinician is desirable to successfully undertake this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explore common psychological conditions and effects in patients with allergic diseases.
Consider the best strategies to assess and manage psychological conditions early in patients with allergic diseases.
Use evidence-based resources to promote best practice in caring for patients with allergic diseases and mental health conditions. Subject Content 1. Psychological effects of living with chronic disease including adaptation, loss, grief, coping and adjustment from the child and adult perspective.
2. Anxiety disorders associated with allergic diseases including generalised anxiety, social phobia and post-traumatic stress disorder.
3. Depression in relation to allergic diseases.
4. Somatoform disorders associated with allergic diseases including chronic pain, unexplained physical syndromes and psychological problems.
5. Eating disorders associated with allergic diseases including food avoidance and aversion.
6. Child specific mental health conditions associated with allergic diseases including separation anxiety, oppositional defiant disorder and other emotional, behavioural and educational effects. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 30 mins  30 Y Individual Y  Critical Review 3,000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 30 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Natalie Morrison Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Allergic Diseases (exit only) (4754) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Medical Studies (MEDI)