Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3040 Foundations of Nursing Practice Credit Points 10 Coordinator Debra Raymond Opens in new window Description Foundations of Nursing Practice is conducted in an intensive study mode that is offered to students with a previous Bachelor degree, Master degree, or higher and completed within the last 10 years. This subject will provide students with the essential foundational and core learning activities to support student transition into the Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). If a student is unsuccessful in attaining a satisfactory grade for this subject they will be requested to transfer into the undergraduate Bachelor of Nursing. All assessments in this subject are mandatory with a threshold requirement. There is a 100% attendance requirement in all workshops, tutorials and Clinical Practice Unit sessions. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4785 Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) Learning Outcomes 1.Identify the principles and practices of primary health care including health promotion, prevention and screening, early intervention, treatment, and management 
2. Appraise principles and best practice of intraprofessional and interprofessional communication in nursing.
3. Perform assessments that are holistic as well as culturally appropriate, and are respectful of a person’s dignity, culture, values, beliefs, and rights, within a simulated learning environment.
4. Accurately and timely document assessments and nursing care plans.
5. Apply the principles of safe medication administration in clinical scenarios within a simulated and clinical learning environment.
6. Practise in accordance with legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in nursing. Subject Content Module 1 - Contexts of Nursing 1. Principles of Primary Health Care (PHC) 2. Engagement with intraprofessional and interprofessional learning for collaborative practice
3. National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards
4. Understanding the relationship between professional and personal life
5. Introduction to diversity, culture, inclusion and cultural safety for all people
6. Reading and understanding evidence based research literature 7. Holistic assessment of health and wellness across the lifespan
8. Predictable/Normative life transitions across the lifespan Module 2 - Behavioural Science 1. Human development
• Holistic overview of human development 
• Diversity in human relationships 
• Theories relevant to human development Module 3 - Bioscience 1. Integumentary, cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, musculoskeletal, nervous, endocrine, reproductive and urinary systems
2. Introduction to human genomics 
3. For each system, the concepts addressed are
• anatomy and physiology
• across the lifespan
• homeostasis and health
• activities of living
4. The ageing process 
5. Introduction to pathophysiology
6. Introduction to pharmacology for nurses
7. Microbiology and infections - relevance for nursing
8 Immune Processes
9. Wound healing Module 4 - Law and Ethics 1. Legal Principles
2. Ethical Principles
3. Codes of Practice for Nurses
4. Case studies: Applying theory to practice Module 5 - Nursing Practice 1. Person centred care
2. Application of WH&S - standard precautions, 
3. Introduce safety and quality standards as they relate to health care
4. Effective written and verbal communication
• ISBAR and clinical handover
5. Holistic health assessment
6. Perform blood pressure, temperature, pulse, respiration, oxygen saturation, height; weight; centile; urine analysis assessment and reporting
7. Assess level of consciousness
8. Skin assessment and maintaining skin integrity
9. Assess oral health
10. Promote comfort measures 
11. Hand hygiene
12. Aseptic technique and simple wound management
13. Safe medication administration - 
14. Introduction to nursing responsibilities and practices when providing care for end-of-life care. 
15. Identifying the person at risk - Falls assessment, Pressure injury, Venous thromboembolism
16. Routine Diagnostic Procedures 
17. Peer reflection and evaluation on simulated skill practice Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 30 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 20 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Block A Session (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Debra Raymond Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)