Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 1022 Evidence in Health Practice (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ryan Sidoti Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce skills for finding and using the best available evidence in health. This begins with understanding thinking systems, biases and why we often don’t accept, or respond to facts, science and evidence. Students will learn the evidence-based practice process to formulate questions and find appropriate and relevant evidence from the unending amount of information available. The subject covers key concepts in how to read and understand a research paper. Students will develop skills for communicating evidence to strengthen arguments in academic writing and professional practice. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Recognise personal thinking styles and associated biases
Describe the reasons for the five steps of evidence-based practice!
Design a sensitive and specific PICO search strategy to find best available evidence
Identify type, level and key research concepts in journal articles, and
Integrate strength and relevance of evidence findings Subject Content Evidence-based Practice (EBP) Process Evidence-based Practice (EBP) Process How to read a paper Communicating evidence Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Part A: 300 words 15 N Individual N  Applied Project Part B: 750 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 800 words 35 N Individual N  Viva Voce 5 minutes 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Health (HLTH)