Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 1010 Management Accounting Fundamentals Credit Points 10 Coordinator Rada Massingham Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to management accounting in an e-commerce environment. Students examine the interrelations of management accounting to other functional areas, to suppliers, to customers, and to other sources of external information relevant to planning and control. Through a range of activities, students learn the development and logic of routine and non-routine analysis performed to support management decision making. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 1007 Equivalent Subjects FINC 1001 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop costing techniques outlining their strengths and weaknesses.
Apply different decision models in the evaluation of product costing, product pricing and sales forecasting.
Prepare a master budget with all of the required supplementary schedules.
Assess what is relevant and irrelevant information in non-routine decision-making.
Explain ethical issues in management accounting.
Describe management accounting in an electronic environment.
Appraise basic concepts of control, and the behavioural impacts of control systems. Subject Content Introduction to management accounting
Basic cost management concepts and cost behaviour
Cost volume profit analysis
Product and service costing: job-order system
Product and service costing: A process systems approach
Relevant decision making
Budgeting for planning and control
Flexible budgeting, Standard costing and variance analysis
Allocating costs of support departments and joint products Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Semester long - equivalent to 1,000 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 2 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Weekly for 10 weeks 15 N Individual N  Professional Task 30 minutes 15 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rada Massingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Bachelor of Accounting (2783) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)