Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7082 Risk Management and Decision Making Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301192 Coordinator Srinath Perera Opens in new window Description This subject introduces decision theory, concepts and techniques applicable in managing projects. These techniques provide the basis for understanding project risks. The risk management process is reviewed in detail and dynamics of applying it in specialisation domains is discussed. The subject also analyses the concept of value and how value management is applied in managing projects. The different approaches of applying value management in different specialisations are discussed. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3752 Master of Project Management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand and apply decision theory and techniques in the context of projects.
Understand the concept of risk and the process of risk management.
Evaluate risks applicable in executing projects.
Analyse value characteristics applicable to products, processes and projects using the concept of value.
Critically evaluate the value of the business case and apply value management techniques to enhance value. Subject Content Decisions Making theory and techniques
Risk and Uncertainty
Risk Management Process
Risk Analysis
Risk response strategies
Introduction to Value management
Value management process
Function analysis
Applications of Value Management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2000 words 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 2000 words 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 4000 words report and 15 minute presentation 60 Y Group/Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Srinath Perera Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Project Management (3787) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Project Management (3786) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Project Management (3752) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other information Technology (INFO)