Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1038 Anatomy and Physiology in Health (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700316 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the levels of structural organisation of the human body together with scientific and medical terminology used in anatomy and physiology. It deals with gross structure and function of the major organ systems of the human body and where appropriate, a brief outline of environmental factors and personal health practices that affect optimal human body function will be introduced. It also deals with basic biomechanics of musculoskeletal system. School Science Discipline Human Biology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1035 Anatomy and Physiology in Health (WSTC)
LGYA 7033 Human Medical Sciences 1
BIOS 1022 Introduction to Human Biology
BIOS 1023 Introduction to Human Biology (WSTC) Incompatible Subjects NATS 1013 Introduction to Anatomy
NATS 1014 Introduction to Anatomy (WSTC)
BIOS 1025 Introduction to Physiology
BIOS 1026 Introduction to Physiology (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College. Students enrolled in 7142 Diploma in Health Science Extended and 7143 Diploma in Health Science (HPE) Extended need to have passed 40 CPs of preparatory subjects in order to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6000 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science and 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (HPE) need to have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and use the scientific and medical terminology of anatomy and physiology to accurately describe the location and function of organs and organ systems of the human body
Describe the levels of structural organisation of the human body
Identify the structure and function of different tissue types and organs
Explain the basic anatomy and physiology of the major body systems including integumentary, skeletal, muscular, nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic, immune, respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems
Determine the environmental and personal health practices affecting optimal function of human body
Describe the biomechanics of the human musculoskeletal system. Subject Content 1. Scientific and medical terminology in anatomy and physiology
2. Levels of structural organisation of human body
3. Gross structure and function of major organ systems of the human body as listed below. Where appropriate, environmental factors and personal health practices affecting optimal function of the human body
(a) The integumentary system
(b) The skeletal system
(c) The muscular system
(d) The nervous system
(e) The endocrine system
(f) The cardiovascular system
(g) The lymphatic system and immunity
(h) The respiratory system
(i) The digestive system
(j) The urinary system
(k) The reproductive system
4. Biomechanics of human musculoskeletal system Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 quizzes. Up to 60 minutes/quiz  
 30 N Individual N  Participation 10 weeks 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 90 minutes 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Virginia Shepherd Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Diploma in Health Science (7018) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (7088) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Extended (7143) Diploma in Health Science Extended (7142) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (6000) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Diploma in Science Extended - Science (7122) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)