Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2015 Community and Social Action Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101595 Coordinator Michel Edenborough Opens in new window Description Dismantling oppressive and complex forms of disadvantage and inequality are social justice and human rights issues demanding collective action. Activism is not solely about disruption and disobedience. This subject focuses on local, national and global social movements, the use of digital technologies and differing forms of activism using theories of social change. We identify and reflect on diverse perspectives, challenging normative constructs between individual and structural explanations of inequality and explore tactics and strategies adopted by activists, from the early 20th century through to contemporary campaigns. Students are enabled to take part in meaningful ways as active change agents through design, planning and participation in a social action campaign, thereby building knowledge and skills in community engagement, relationship building and the strategies and methods involved in bringing about positive social change. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1286 - Education for Social Action Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of social movements and change processes from diverse perspectives.
Recognise the challenges for collective action in the social/political context of NPM (New Public Management).
Critically analyse the competing interests involved in social change.
Identify the links between contested issues in global and local contexts in terms of bringing about social change.
Recognise and reflect on skills used in mobilising power necessary for bringing about social change. Subject Content Key concepts and theories of social change
History of Social Movements
Ethical and respectful advocacy and activism change strategies
Social Action & the State
Current Challenges & Opportunities for Social Change
Organising for Social Change
Citizenship & Social Change
Values, competing interests & technology
Environmental Activism
Indigenous Activism
Women & Social Change
Linking individual & structural social change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 900 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study 600 words 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 300 words 10 Y Group/Individual Y  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Michel Edenborough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Michel Edenborough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michel Edenborough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Child and Community, Major (0045) Child and Community, Minor (0045) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Equitable Technologies, Minor (0312) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)