Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7049 Care of People with Tuberculosis (TB) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401376 Coordinator Stephen Mcnally Opens in new window Description This subject examines the care of individuals with Tuberculosis (TB), from initial diagnosis through treatment phases of the disease. Students will explore the role of case management in the care of patients with TB, including strategies to enhance the effectiveness of case managers. Drug resistant TB will be a focus of the subject, especially in relation to its prevention, and the safe management and treatment of patients with different types of drug resistance. Strategies for facilitating community participation in health care will be provided and students will have the tools to develop a community-based health education program focusing on TB. Case studies drawn from across the lifespan and different populations will provide a focus for exploring the pathophysiology of Tuberculosis, diagnostic options, modes of transmission and the pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment options available. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise goals and principles of case management
Apply an understanding of how case management can be used in the care of patients with Tuberculosis (TB) and contacts
Scrutinise the predictors and clinical signs of drug resistant TB
Critically review and apply strategies to prevent the development of drug resistant TB
Formulate concepts of community participation in health care
Create a community-based health promotion program focusing on TB Subject Content Case management principles
Role of case manager
Effective interviewing skills
Patient centred care
Adherence behaviour
Infection prevention and Tuberculosis case management
Safe management and treatment of contacts of patients with Tuberculosis (Directly Observed Treatment - DOT)
Preventing drug resistant Tuberculosis
Models of care for the delivery of tuberculosis prevention
Health education strategies
Safe management and treatment of contacts of Tuberculosis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes 20 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 1,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Stephen Mcnally Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Nursing (4723) Nursing (NURS) Tuberculosis Management, Testamur Major (T093)