Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 7001 Development and Security Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101896 Coordinator Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window Description Successful development requires the provision of security. As a corollary, lack of development can breed insecurity and violence. The overall nexus between development and security is not only about a country's domestic affairs; it concerns the global community. Amid the increasing pace of globalisation, global inequalities both within and between countries have increased, which have been complicated by competitions between groups, actors and countries. These may pose development and security challenges at national and global scales. This subject will concentrate on three key aspects. First, it will interrogate the complex relationship between development and security from interdisciplinary perspectives.  Second, this subject will examine the development roots of insecurity focusing on social and economic structures and key issues in development and security from local and global perspectives as well as from micro and macro outlooks.  Third, relevant case studies will be embedded throughout the subject contents to enhance students' analytical skills and practical orientation on the field of development and security. School Social Sciences Discipline Political Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of the prevalence, characteristics, consequences and possible causes of civil wars and conflicts in developing countries
Demonstrate detailed knowledge of, and a rigorous and coherent analytical approach to, the multiple forms of violence and conflict in developed and developing countries
Critically analyse ideas about conflict, development and security as well as possible inter-linkages among them
Demonstrate critical and thorough understanding of the core issues of development and security and their inter-linkages
Critically examine relevant cases and policies on development and security using appropriate theoretical frameworks Subject Content Violence, conflict and development
Development as security
Greed, grievance and social contract
Culture, ethnicity and religion
Poverty, inequality, marginalisation and exclusion
Natural resources, conflict and development
Peace keeping operation, the UN and DDR
Global governance for world order
Selected cases on the interlinkages between development and security Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 750 words 25 N Individual N  Critical Review 750 words 25 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies  (1897) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1868) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1867) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1896) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Political Science and Policy (POLI)