Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7004 Audiovisual Translation: Subtitling and Captioning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101827 Coordinator Vera Xu Opens in new window Description This subject aims to introduce students to the framework of audiovisual translation in the form of subtitling for films, documentaries and other screen programs and captioning for hearing impaired viewers. The content of the subject will cover the principles, constraints, guiding rules, translation strategies that specifically govern subtitling and captioning. It will also introduce students to related translation theories and the application in practice. The class will be non-language specific, but students will be expected to work from and into their language other than English. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LANG 7021 OR
LANG 7020 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and one other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate a good understanding of subtitling and captioning;
explain constraints that govern subtitling and captioning and corresponding rules in subtitling and captioning;
demonstrate creative and intelligent condensing principles and strategies in subtitling and the principle of verbatim in captioning;
demonstrate understanding of domesticating and foreignising theories and their applications in subtitling;
explain the intricacies and difficulties of achieving cross-lingual and cross-cultural communications;
demonstrate a high level of language proficiency in a variety of text genres. Subject Content Presentation of specific nature of subtitling and captioning as audiovisual translation, including the governing constraints and principles
Introduction of linguistic and cultural dimensions to subtitling and captioning
Introduction of relevant translation theories and their application
Practical strategies in subtitling and captioning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1000-1500 words 50 N Individual Y  Practical Exam Part of English script from a TV program in word document 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vera Xu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)