Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3037 Neuroanatomy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300754 Coordinator Peter Shortland Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the human anatomy and physiology studied in first and second year, equipping students with detailed knowledge of functional neuroanatomy, with particular emphasis on the central nervous system.  Cadaver specimens are used to facilitate the learning of spatial relationships between structures. The study of neurological function and dysfunction integrates many previously learned scientific principles. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1009 Human Anatomy and Physiology 1 Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Due to space limitations, students must be enrolled in the following programs:3733 Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) 3755 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3758 Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science, 4656 Bachelor of Health Science, 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy, 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine, 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours), 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy, 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours), 4733 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours), 6002 Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science, 6042 Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science. Note: Enrolment of students in other programs may be approved by the subject Coordinator for the Summer session, subject to vacancies and meeting equivalent prerequisite knowledge. Please lodge a Rule Waiver request for enrolment. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify neuroanatomical structures from cadaveric specimens, photographs/diagrams & models, and discuss their functions.
Identify and discuss histological features of the nervous system.
Explain the embryological development of the nervous system and analyse the consequences of alterations in development.
Explain the functional and spatial relationships between structures and analyse the consequences of alterations in these relationships.
Explain the pathogenesis/pathophysiology, manifestations and treatment of neurological disorders. Subject Content Embryological development of the nervous system
Topographical features, internal anatomy, and functions of the cerebrum, cerebellum, brain stem & spinal cord
Relationship of cranial nerves with the brain and cranial cavity
Major nuclei of the brain and associated functions
Nuclei and functions of the diencephalon, basal ganglia & brain stem
Neural histology, signalling & transmission
Major limbic structures functions
Sensory reception and pathways
Motor structures and pathways
Spinal reflexes
Vasculature of the brain and spinal cord
Neurological disorders/dysfunction
Neural basis of pain Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2-3 pages 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam up to 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam up to 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam up to 60 minutes 30 N Individual N The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2-3 pages 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam up to 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam up to 45 minutes 25 N Individual N  Final Exam up to 60 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Peter Shortland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Sam Merlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Clinical Sciences, Testamur Major (T109) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)