Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 3008 Negotiation in the Built Environment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301105 Coordinator Anthony Butera Opens in new window Description Construction and Property development is the most complex activity in the Australian economy. There are many professional groups involved in the sector. This subject will train students in the negotiation skills required to successfully complete projects from the perspective of a construction manager, building surveyor, planner, civil engineer, construction lawyer and property developer. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BLDG 2009 - Decision Making for Construction Professionals Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: appreciate the importance of negotiation in the built environment
identify common problems that frustrate a successful negotiation outcome
explore the common negotiation styles of stakeholders
investigate the alternatives to direct negotiation
understand the deficiencies of distributive bargaining; eg. "Split-the-difference"
apply integrative negotiation strategies Subject Content 1. The value of negotiation
2. Negotiation flaws
3. Negotiation styles
4. Mediation
5. Distributive agreements
6. Integrative agreements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Presentation 16 minutes 25 N Group N  Report 3,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Anthony Butera Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anthony Butera Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Building (BLDG) Building Surveying, Testamur Major (T088) Building, Testamur Major (T149) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045) Quantity Surveying, Testamur Major (T087)