Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3021 Occupation and Neurology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400171 Coordinator Beth Cheal Opens in new window Description This subject prepares occupational therapy students to work in a variety of settings with individuals who have a neurological condition.  The impact of common neurological conditions on the person, their environment and their occupations will be examined. Students will be exposed to a variety of assessments, interventions and evaluation tools suitable for this client population. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health ScienceMasters of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy 4 must have completed units NATS 3037 - Neuroanatomy and REHA 2006 - People Environment and Occupations Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Reflect on, and describe the impact of stroke and traumatic brain injury on a client and their carer.
Administer and interpret selected assessments and outcome measures which are appropriate for use in neurological rehabilitation.
Analyse the performance of clients with stroke and traumatic brain injury, and suggest possible reasons for observable performance difficulties.
Describe, demonstrate, and prioritise occupational therapy interventions, based on analysis of client performance and recent research evidence.
Develop specific, measurable, client-centred goals.
Identify the strengths, weaknesses, and ‘clinical bottom line’ of key research studies in neurological rehabilitation.
Describe community support services which may help people with neurological conditions, and their carers. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 20 mins of in-class presentation including demonstration and peer-led discussion 30 N Group Y  Quiz Up to 40 mins 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 2500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Beth Cheal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)