Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7030 Sustainable Property Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201013 Coordinator Za Manaf Opens in new window Description The subject focusses on the importance of Planning and its role in relation to the property development process. This subject provides a wide ranging study of the objectives, functions, roles and methods of operation of the development process, the financial aspects of development, social considerations, taxation aspects and planning matters. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MKTG 7021 - Property Development LGYC 0023 - Property Development (V2) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the roles and impacts of the key participants in the various stages of the property development process;
Analyse and evaluate the range of underlying factors which may directly affect the financial viability and risk exposure of development proposals, and how such factors arise;
Propose effective means to manage and control development risks of various kinds that may vary over time;
Evaluate the level of planning requirement compliance of a development proposal;
Evaluate the role society plays in providing proper control of development activity via the formulation of environmental and town planning codes/regulations;
Work productively in groups Subject Content 1. Property development overview
2. Land Law
3. Town Planning and development approval
4. Development objectives and main components
5. Failed development. Definition and the importance of studying a failed development
6. Property development process
7. Risks in property development
8. Risk management strategies
9. Financing a development
10. Project feasibility ? hypothetical Development Method
11. Developing property sustainably including ethical and socially responsible development Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 2500 words 60 N Group Y  Presentation 5 minutes per person 10 N Individual Y  Short Answer 500 words S/U N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Property Investment (2814) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813) Property, Major (0172) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)