Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3001 Bank Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200818 Coordinator Sean Toohey Opens in new window Description Bank Management provides students with an understanding of modern banking by identifying the main types of risk confronted by banks and applying relevant techniques to measure and manage those risks. Students will recognise that the risks faced, and the methods and markets through which these risks are managed, are similar for the managers of other types of financial institutions such as building societies, investment banks and insurance companies as well as, to some extent, non-financial corporates. Consequently, the subject will prepare students for careers throughout the financial services sector and will also be beneficial for other business professionals. School Business Discipline Banking and Finance Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Students who have completed the subject Corporate Financial Management or equivalent will find this subject more manageable. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate critical understanding of the structures and functioning of banking and issues related to banking in a contemporary globalised economy, including the impact of government policy and regulation on banking.
Interpret the financial statements of banks and apply various tools and approaches for measuring and evaluating the performance of banks.
Evaluate various asset-liability management techniques and hedging against interest-rate risk and credit risk.
Analyse and evaluate lending choices in different business and personal lending contexts from the perspective of sources of fee income and other revenue producing services.
Evaluate important risk-management tools for banks. Subject Content 1. Banks and the financial services industry
2. Risks of financial institutions
3. Interest rate risk measurement
4. Managing interest rate risk
5. Market risk
6. Credit risk
7. Liquidity risk
8. Liability and liquidity management
9. Capital management and adequacy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 0.2 hours 20 N Group Y  Quiz 5 hours 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Sean Toohey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sean Toohey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sean Toohey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Sean Toohey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Sean Toohey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC)