Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1017 Understanding Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101551 Coordinator Emily Wolfinger Opens in new window Description Understanding Society introduces first year students to key sociological concepts, methods and theories used for the examination of individuals, social interactions, institutions and structures.  Students explore how individual experiences are connected to wider social patterns.  Considering questions of power, students will be introduced to various debates concerning structure and agency, and will examine social inequality.  With a focus on contemporary social life, the subject provides opportunity for students to consider current social issues and processes of social change.  At the conclusion of their studies in this subject students will have been presented with opportunities to develop skills in critical reading and sociological analysis. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1037 – Introduction to Sociology CULT 1019 - Understanding Society (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate their knowledge of key concepts and interpretive traditions in sociology.
Identify relevant sources, and assess approaches to and claims about social processes and institutions.
Analyse social processes and institutions from a broad understanding of contemporary society.
Demonstrate writing and referencing skills commensurate with university scholarship.
Explain key concepts in sociology.
Identify key characteristics of the major theoretical frameworks used in sociology.
Identify relevant sources, and assess approaches to and claims about social processes and institutions in contemporary society.
Apply a sociological understanding of power, social inequality and social change to case study materials.
Demonstrate reading, writing and referencing skills commensurate with university scholarship. Subject Content The Sociological Perspective
Groups and Social Control
Social Inequality
Social Institution
Social Change
Individual and social identities
Social groups and relationships
Social Institutions
Power, structure and agency Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 500 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 35 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Participation 30 minutes 5 N Individual N WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook Part 1: 500 words plus Discussion Board contributions; Part 2: unspecified 30 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 35 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rachel Sharples Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Rachel Sharples Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Rachel Sharples Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rachel Sharples Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Emily Wolfinger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Emily Wolfinger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Emily Wolfinger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Policing (exit only) (1930) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Social Science (1808) Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (1709) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Criminology (1710) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Social Science (1807) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Bachelor of Social Science (Advanced) (1733) Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (2538) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) ​Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2831)