Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3024 Video Games Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300862 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an in-depth understanding of the development and structure of game engines. It provides the student with a unifying overview of the many modules that are incorporated in a game engine as well as a detailed examination of game-play and engine programming. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Artificial Intelligence Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 1005 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6086 - Games Theory and Design Assumed Knowledge Understanding of programming concepts and details of programming. Good programming skills in C#, Java or C++. Knowledge of systems analysis methods including object orientated analysis and design. Basic knowledge of vector algebra, matrixes and fundamentals of mathematics. Learning Outcomes Explain the fundamental concepts behind computer game engines
Understand the technological details behind various modules that comprise a game engine
Write basic modules to interface with a game engine
Design modules to meet a given set of requirements
Develop their own game using the selected game engine Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 7 weeks 10 N Individual N  Case Study 5 weeks to complete 10 N Group/Individual N  Applied Project Requires a number of weeks to complete 40 N Group/Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Computer Science (COMP) Entertainment Computing, Major (0145) Entertainment Computing, Minor (0145) Game Design, Testamur Major (T060) Game Programming, Testamur Major (T061) Games Development, Minor (0323) Multimedia Computing, Minor (0328) Multimedia Computing, Testamur Major (T147) Video Games, Minor (0276)