Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 1003 Hadith: The Prophetic Tradition (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700161 Coordinator Kathy Gooch Opens in new window Description Islam is a way of life which is governed by the Qur'an, the Muslim principal source of guidance.  However, while the Qur'an is the foundation of authority in Islam, it provides few legal injunctions.  Hadith (the saying, deeds and actions of Prophet Muhammad) forms the basis for the details of Islamic law and for many tenets of Islamic creed.  This subject introduces students to the second most fundamental source of Islam, Hadith. It aims to familiarise students with the origins of the Hadith, its overall structure, content and importantly, its function in Muslim living and to assist them in understanding contemporary issues and debates surrounding Islam. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Religious Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PHIL 1002 - Hadith The Prophetic Tradition Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: After successful completion of this Unit, students will be able to:
Demonstrate comprehension of the Prophetic Tradition ? Hadith.
Identify key issues and concepts in the literature.
Analyse scholarly debates surrounding the Hadith.
Examine the origins and development of Hadith.
Discuss the terms Isnad and Matn and their place in understanding of the Hadith.
Assess the similarities and differences between the six canonical collections of Hadith.
Explore the relevance and importance of Hadith in Muslim everyday living. Subject Content 1. What is Hadith? The Meaning.
2. Defining Sunnah.
3. The use of the word Hadith and its relation to Sunnah.
4. The genesis and development of Hadith.
5. The historical value of Hadith.
6. Collection, classification, categorisation, standardisation and compilation of Hadith.
7. The six canonical collections of Hadith.
8. The relationship between Qur'an and Hadith.
9. Hadith as a source of morals, ethics, doctrine and law.
10. The function of Hadith in Islamic law and theology.
11. The orientalists and the criticism of Hadith.
12. Hadith and Muslim everyday living.
13. Hadith and modernity. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Two in-class tests 500 words 20 N Individual   Reflective Journal 1,250 words 40 N Individual   Research paper 1,250 words 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)