Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2021 Indonesian 201 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102319 Coordinator Anna Nettheim Opens in new window Description This is a Level 2 subject in the Indonesian Specialisation. It introduces students to formal and informal registers of Indonesian and exposes them to relatively complex aspects of Indonesian grammar such as affixes. Students will study the use of spoken language mainly through participation in dialogues and discussion. More formal registers will be studied through reading and writing. Communicative settings will include fields such as health, education, and tourism. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Assumed Knowledge 102326 Indonesian 102 or introductory level knowledge of basic language skills and general knowledge about ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity of Indonesia. Learning Outcomes Use key Indonesian grammatical constructions;
Differentiate between formal and informal registers of Indonesian;
Demonstrate listening and reading comprehension skills;
Communicate orally and in writing using various Indonesian constructions;
Demonstrate awareness of some aspects of Indonesian culture and cultural appropriateness;
Use the online learning environment for further language study. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Ongoing Assessment Activities 1000 words equivalent 20 N Individual   2 x Indonesian Writing Tasks 250 words 40 N Individual   2 x Oral Tests 10 mins each 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)