Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3009 Developmental Psychology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101682 Coordinator Karen Mattock Opens in new window Description Structured around an overview of lifespan development including diversity, this subject explores the holistic nature of growth and development through developmental theory and research. This subject highlights the interactive nature of three main areas of development: biological, cognitive, and psychosocial changes that affect the individual from conception to end of life. The subject encourages observation as a means for understanding development and promoting individual wellbeing. Indigenous Australian knowledges and perspectives are integrated into the subject alongside an appreciation of the richness of diverse cultural contexts. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1018 Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of core concepts of personality, social and developmental psychology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Display an understanding of contemporary theories, principles, studies and methodologies used in the study of developmental psychology from conception to end of life.
Apply knowledge of the various developmental domains (cognitive, physical and social-emotional) and their interrelationships.
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of conception to end of life in all its diversity, to the social, learning environment and apply this to psychological practice.
Employ, analyse and interpret various research methodologies in regard to the holistic development of the child, adolescent and adult considering relevant developmental theories and principles.
Evaluate matters related to child protection, including interprofessional perspectives, and impacts on development.
Evaluate developmental theories and practice approaches from cross-cultural and Indigenous Australian knowledges and perspectives.
Demonstrate creativity and reflexivity to critically analyse personally held values, feelings and attitudes. Subject Content Historical context and research methodologies in lifespan development
Biological basis of development
Physical and motor development through the life span
Physical development and ageing
Perceptual and language development across the lifespan
Cognitive development through the life span
Moral development
Early childhood and social emotional development: attachment and it's significance in human development
The self, personality and individual differences in development
Social and emotional development across the lifespan
Impact of child abuse and neglect - the effects on physical, psychological and emotional development; promoting resilience; developing knowledge of child protection matters and mandatory reporting and interprofessional perspectives.
Cross cultural and indigenous perspectives in lifespan development
End of life issues-death dying and bereavement Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 450-500 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 2000-2500 words 40 N Individual Y  Participation 5 entries 5 N Individual Y  Participation 5 entries 5 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1000 words 30 N Individual Y WSU Online Trimester 3 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 300 - 350 words 10 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 - 2,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Karen Mattock Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)