Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 3006 Governance in Policing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102169 Coordinator Adrian Leiva Opens in new window Description In this subject students examine the nature and function of governance and accountability processes within policing and the broader private security industry. There is a focus on the commitment by governments to practices at an individual and organisational level that are based on accountability, contestability and continuous improvement. Issues such as human rights, ethics in policing, conflicts of interest, misconduct, and corruption and criminality within policing and related industries, are explored; and relevant explanatory theories are examined.  Different models and levels of governance and accountability in Australia are also explored, as are the roles of professional standards subjects within police forces, external accountability agencies such as police integrity commissions, the ombudsman, and crime and misconduct agencies . These are compared with other approaches worldwide. Throughout the subject extensive use will be made of case studies and problem based learning where students will be invited to propose solutions to real world problems. School Social Sciences Discipline Police Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CULT 3017 AND
CULT 2006 OR
CULT 2016 Restrictions This is a specialist core subject and is restricted to students enrolled in programs 1662/1844 Bachelor of Policing, 1719 Bachelor of Policing Studies - Non NSW Police Pathway, 1734 Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) or 6029 Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing. Assumed Knowledge Students are required to possess a sound knowledge of key issues in, and mechanisms of, policing practices, as well as legislative functions, as established as foundational knowledge in the policing core subjects over the first two years of study, in order to successfully undertake this subject. Learning Outcomes Critically evaluate research evidence and literature on ethics, governance and accountability in policing
Evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of governance processes and procedures in real world issues.
Articulate the need for governance and governance approaches to policing in Australia and internationally. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 x 5 multiple choice quizzes due weekly 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Adrian Leiva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool Hybrid Subject Contact Adrian Leiva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Adrian Leiva Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law Enforcement Studies, Minor (0308)