Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 1009 Welfare Field Education 1 (Block Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101765 Coordinator Sonia Tascon Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to participate in a structured and supervised field placement (140 hours). Welfare Field Education 1 (Block Mode) provides students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge and experience in linking theory with practice, and extend their skills for community work with the support of practitioners working in the human services sector. Placements are offered in a variety of agency types spanning all areas of community work practice: work with individuals, groups and families, community development; research and policy. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Welfare Studies and Services, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7647 - Welfare Field Education 1 (AREPMETRO) WELF 2016 - Welfare Field Education 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed 40 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the range of agencies in the human services sector.
Assess the impact of their own values in working with individuals and communities in the welfare context.
Demonstrate appropriate verbal and written communication skills for working in community welfare.
Apply professional skills appropriate to community welfare agency work.
Critically reflect on their experiences in placement, including their learning in the placement, skills acquired and areas for development.
Demonstrate report writing skills required for the placement report. Subject Content 1. Successfully completing 140 hours of practicum in a welfare agency
2. Networking and referral skills
3. Welfare needs and services available to people within a particular region.
4. Role of volunteers in the community sector and the role of students on placement.
5. Critical thinking and analysis.
6. Basic communication skills, including professional telephone skills, and report writing skills
7. Goal setting/preparation for first placement.
8. Value and ethical dilemmas in the human services sector.
9. Task planning and prioritisation
10. How and when to use consultation, peer support and supervision.
11. Methods of reflection on the process of intervention in light of personal and agency ideology and social welfare values. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject students must have submitted a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information. Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Agency Poster Presentation  S/U N Individual   Learning Plan  500 words S/U Y Individual   Placement  140 hours of placement  S/U Y Individual   Placement Report 1,000 words S/U Y Individual Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF)