Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1072 The Human Experience: Fundamentals of Arts and Humanities (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description In this subject, you will explore core concepts and approaches of major Arts disciplines: sociology, philosophy, history, and literature, applying critical and creative thinking. You will also develop skills in reading and textual analysis to understand the human experience better. This subject will introduce you to the basic principles of reader-response theory and general strategies to improve reading resilience. Textual analysis skills are built through engagement with a diverse range of texts on a variety of themes, which are relevant to the contemporary world. You will be able to read, discuss, analyse, and communicate about texts in ways appropriate to academic levels of study in Arts and Humanities. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 1030
LANG 1032 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of core theories and approaches to sociology, philosophy, history and literature 
Identify relevant primary and reliable secondary sources of information 
Demonstrate skills in reading, textual analysis, critical and creative thinking 
Demonstrate an ability to communicate coherent and logical arguments using source evidence 
Apply ethical solutions to address real world problems Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 250 equivalent 15 N Individual N  Poster 700 plus media 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Debate 3 mins per person 20 N Group N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)