Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7031 Political Economy of Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101895 Coordinator Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window Description The subject introduces students to the main theories and the diverse political economy dimensions of development. It consists of three modules. The first deals with key concepts that interrogate the meaning of development, origins of prosperity and the concepts of poverty, inequality and redistribution, which are contentious in their applications to various groups. The second module examines core issues in the political economy of development, which include globalisation, foreign aid, democracy, conflict and the role of the state.  The last module engages with pertinent case studies focusing on Asia, the Pacific as well as problems with development in the Western world. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Review various theoretical perspectives of development and debates surrounding them.
Identify and critically analyse the core issues and their inter-linkages in the diverse perspectives of political economy of development.
Critically analyse cases of development using appropriate theoretical frameworks. Subject Content Module I - Concepts
1. Defining and measuring development
2. Origins of prosperity: Capital, geography, culture and institutions
3. Poverty, inequality and redistribution
Module II ? Core Issues
4. Globalisation: The West and the rest
5. Development assistance and foreign aid
6. Fragile and failed states: The bottom billion
7. Democracy and development
8. The state and development: Searching for a right balance
Module III ? Case Studies
9. The East Asian and Southeast Asian miracle
10. Global financial crisis (GFC) and populism
11. Development in the Pacific: Vulnerability of small island states
12. The struggle of Indigenous peoples Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 800 words 25 N Individual Y  Critical Review 800 words 25 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,400 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies  (1897) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1868) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1867) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1896) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)