Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4003 Midwifery Honours Thesis A (Full-time) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401441 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description Research is a necessary undertaking toward the continued development of midwifery science and practice. Midwifery Thesis is comprised of Midwifery Thesis A (20 credit points) which is a continuing subject to Midwifery Thesis B (40 Credit points) in which the completed Midwifery Thesis is due to be submitted for examination.  In the Midwifery Thesis A subject, in consultation with their academic supervisors, the student will select a topic, conduct a literature review, design and implement a research study, and report the findings and their implications. The subject provides an opportunity for students, under the guidance of their supervisors to propose, plan and implement a research project related to midwifery, and work towards planning, developing  and producing a written thesis due to be completed in the Midwifery Thesis B subject. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours). Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level. Learning Outcomes Investigate a midwifery related issue or problem in depth through a review of the literature
Identify a researchable question related to a midwifery issue or problem
Develop a research proposal
Obtain formal approvals for research, e.g. ethical approval, where required
Perform data collection and data analysis relevant to the research proposal
Contribute to discussions about the research process with professional colleagues
Develop a written thesis which will demonstrates proficiency in the execution of the study and ability to effectively communicate results and conclusions Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 15,000-20,000words. Y grade (continuing unit) N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) (4784) Nursing (NURS)