Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2024 Ethnographies of Southeast Asia and the Pacific Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102346 Coordinator Geir Henning Presterudstuen Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to ethnographic field study through a close examination of the anthropology of two regions with which Australia is  geographically and politically aligned; the Pacific Islands and South-east Asia. Drawing upon classic and contemporary ethnography the subject will provide opportunities for comparative and trans-historical studies of how cultures in these regions have been constructed and changed in relation to larger global dynamics. It will also provide an insight into the ways in which anthropological theory is developed in the context of attempts to explain and interpret cultural difference. Key topics of study, explored through case studies, will include the colonial experience, traditions and modernities, nations and nationalism, transnationalism, religion, social conflict, and material cultures. The subject will include ethnographic films. School Social Sciences Discipline Anthropology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply anthropological concepts to the description of cultural diversity in South-east Asia and the Pacific islands.
Analyse some of the ways symbolic cultures and traditions are influenced by political, material and environmental factors.
Draw upon ethnographic case studies to explain regional similarities and differences.
Apply anthropological theories to case studies about cultural change.
Analyse some ways visual anthropology (film, photography) can effectively aid in the description of cultural phenomena. Subject Content 1. The peoples of Southeast Asia and the Pacific.
2. The South Pacific and Southeast Asia in the colonial imagination.
3. Melanesian and Polynesian anthropologies.
4. Chiefs and Big Men ? governance and tradition.
5. Gifts, symbols and material culture.
6. Anthropologies of Southeast Asia: Indonesia and Thailand.
7. The village, the nation and nationalism in Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia.
8. Global interventions: the IMF, the World Bank and INGOs in Cambodia, Indonesia, and Laos.
9. Commodifying culture ? Southeast Asia and the pacific as tourist destinations.
10. Australia in the Region. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review: Ethnographic Film Critique/Analysis  1000 words 25 N Individual   2A. Poster (20%)
2B. Presentation (5%): Poster Presentation 
 500 words plus visuals 25 N Individual   Analytical essay 1500 words 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)