Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1024 Music Theory and Songwriting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102770 Coordinator Clare Maclean Opens in new window Description This subject studies harmony and musical techniques used in a variety of styles, and applies these in the development of song-writing and composition skills. Keyboard and aural classes include practical musicianship training related to the lectures. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1001 OR
PERF 1015 Equivalent Subjects PERF 1004 - Composition Craft and Theory 2 LGYA 6571 - Music Craft and Theory 2 PERF 1002 - Composition Craft and Theory PERF 1017 - Songwriting and Music Theory Assumed Knowledge Students must have completed the prerequisite subject, or demonstrate an understanding of key signatures, intervals, triad chord structures, meter and rhythm, through a music theory screening test to be administered by the Subject Coordinator. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Write a song using at least two contrasting sections
Write a composition in an existing or original/free style
Undertake harmonic analysis of music in different styles
Harmonise a tonal melody
Read and play simple melodies and harmony at the keyboard
Notate from aural dictation: intervals, chords, inversions, rhythms, simple melodies and harmonic progressions
Notate music with Finale or other notation software
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10-20 minutes each 30 N Individual N  Practical Compositions: 32 bars each. Tests: 3 mins each. 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hrs per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Clare Maclean Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music for Primary Teaching, Minor (0210) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Performing Arts (PERF)