Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5027 Music Curriculum 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102880 Coordinator Peter Calvert Opens in new window Description This subject will explore the discipline of Music education in contemporary Australian society, and the senior secondary Music extension curriculum. The subject will investigate current evidence-based approaches for curriculum development for quality teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for building knowledge and praxis  of Music. They will learn approaches for engaging adolescent learners and differentiate the curriculum in the senior secondary years. They will further develop skills to shape the dialogic talk of the classroom. Pre-service teachers will formulate subject and assessment plans in order to demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. They will develop teaching resources  for effective teaching and learning and to link with curriculum. They will critique curriculum implementation in current socio-cultural school contexts. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7027 AND
TEAC 7004 AND
TEAC 7032 Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have Music Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate critical understanding of NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Extension 1 and 2 Music syllabuses.
Demonstrate understanding of relevant pedagogical theories and approaches used in teaching senior Music.
Design differentiated student-centred lessons that extend students’ musicology,  aural, performance and composition skills leading to independent musicianship.
Prepare a suitable range of senior assessment instruments in the key areas of performance and production.
Assemble teaching resources  that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching senior Music and include opportunities to develop students’ performative, aural and musicology skills.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies, music genres and styles including ICT in teaching lessons and programs.
Critically reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of Music teaching. Subject Content What is the nature of the subject in the senior years of secondary education? 
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for the awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the subject? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)