Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3023 Integrated Paramedicine Credit Points 40 Description In this capstone subject students will extend their learning to include evidence-based health care and translation of knowledge to clinical practice. Students will respond, within a team, to emergency calls in the community (through 4-5 weeks of clinical placement) or in simulated laboratory contexts and facilitate the provision of out-of-hospital care within the limitations of the regulator or health care organisations. Students will develop the capacity to critically analyse clinical practice and provide constructive feedback to improve quality of emergency care and patient safety. Students will have the opportunity to implement clinical decision making, use judicious treatments and provide trauma-informed care. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2028 AND
HLTH 2029 Restrictions Must be enrolled in 4790 Bachelor of Paramedicine.
Must have completed 160 Credit Points. Learning Outcomes Analyse self-practice to identify gaps in knowledge, skills or behaviours specific to paramedicine practice
Synthesise evidence in order to answer self-formed questions
Work collaboratively to formulate education strategies
Apply evidence transfer and translation
Create educational strategies to promote evidence transfer and translation
Facilitate effective peer to peer teaching in a medical simulation context
Critically analyse clinical practice and provide quality improvement feedback Subject Content Evidence synthesis and critical appraisal
Simulation education facilitation
Preceptorship and mentoring
Critical observation and analysis
Peer to peer debriefing and feedback
Translation of evidence into practice
Transition to professional practice Special Requirements Essential equipment Must have appropriate paramedicine uniform and equipment as per the Paramedicine Uniform Policy. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 3000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Applied Project 2000 words 30 N Group Y  Peer Review 2000 words and 30 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Other Health (HLTH)