Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7114 Research and Professional Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102100 Coordinator Beatriz Cardona Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject aims to develop students' capacity to reflect on and develop their teaching practice and professional identity as practitioner researchers. Vital to this process is the capacity to use research to interpret current educational contexts and the implications for their role as teachers. Students will explore research processes including data collection, analysis techniques and the processes that experienced researchers take in order to ensure their research is valid, reliable, ethical, useful and socially responsible. Contemporary theories as well as social, cultural, economic and political structures important to the role and work of teachers will also be critically reviewed. In this subject students will challenge established, historical conceptualisations of 'teacher' to develop their own understanding of this role in contemporary, early childhood and primary education contexts. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1691 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years) or 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Engage critically with contemporary literature about research and education research debates.
Discuss the research process and the role of each step of the process for quality research.
Analyse the key factors (including historical perspectives) influencing the practice and identities of teachers in contemporary multicultural and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educational contexts.
Articulate key arguments about educational discourse and their implications for education birth ? 12 years.
Advocate for the early childhood sector and make informed comment on the educational landscape.
Communicate the importance of the research process for professional identity and practice. Subject Content The value of engaging with educational research.
The strategies for locating and critically evaluating peer reviewed educational research.
The social, cultural, economic and political structures important to the role and identity of teachers.
Research processes: research design, data analysis and ethical issues.
Research on the key factors (including historical perspectives) of contemporary teaching and learning.
Accountability requirements and their impact on professional practice and identities.
Engaging with research literature as a way to continually refine one's understanding of the role and work of teachers. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Bolshaw, P., & Josephidou, J. (2019). Introducing Research in Early Childhood. Sage Publications. Retrieved from http://ezproxy.uws.edu.au/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=2691306&site=ehost-live&scope=site Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Beatriz Cardona Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Teacher Education (TEAC)