Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1011 Indonesian 101 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102316 Coordinator Anna Nettheim Opens in new window Description This is an introductory subject to the Indonesian language and culture, for students who commence a specialisation in Indonesian at a beginner level. The subject equips students with basic language skills, provides a basic knowledge about the ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity of Indonesia. Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study and where required undertake brief spoken and written entry assessments. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Course Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes Communicate at a basic level using the Indonesian language.
Use a range of Indonesian grammar and sentence structures.
Talk about themselves, their society and way of life and make some comparisons between Australia and Indonesia.
Apply general knowledge about Indonesian culture and society. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Ongoing Assessment Activities (20 short online quizzes = 2 a week done at home) 1,000 words equivalent 40 N Individual   2 x Indonesian Writing Tasks 250 words 40 N Individual   Viva Voce 10 minutes 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)