Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7011 Work-Integrated Learning in Project Management A Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301366 Coordinator Ali Al-Ashwal Opens in new window Description This work integrated learning subject will provide students enrolled in the Master of Project Management with an opportunity to undertake work placement focusing on project management (PM) in a professional organisation within an industry relevant to students' specialisation or generic option. The placement will allow students to observe and develop PM professional skills and behaviour, integrate theoretical and practical PM knowledge and conventions into a real world setting, and establish project management competency, all in line with recognised world standard in project management. This subject aims to promote greater engagement with career planning and progression and hence improve job readiness. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects INFO 7010 - Research Project A INFO 7011 - Research Project B Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3752- Master of Project Management and must have successfully completed 80 credit points Assumed Knowledge Foundational knowledge of project management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Clearly justify your role and responsibilities in the workplace for a minimum of 500 hours in both Work-Integrated Learning units based on recognised world standards in project management and workplace health and safety requirements.
Holistically examine and reflect on how the project management knowledge is applied in the workplace, through your own observations and implementation.
Successfully develop project management competencies in line with recognised world standard in project management.
Constructively contribute to the project management-related work of the workplace.
Explain in detail how the work placement has contributed towards your career planning and job readiness in the project management sector. Subject Content 1. 250 hours work placement at an approved organisation within an industry relevant to students?f individual specialisation under the guidance of an approved workplace supervisor and an academic supervisor of WSU
2. Integration of project management knowledge and skills with real world applications in line with recognised world standard in project management.
3. Reflection on project management knowledge and skills in line with recognised world standard in project management.
4. Achievement of project management competencies identified in recognised world standard in project management. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites All students will be required to conduct Work Health and Safety Risk Assessment for the tasks they may carry out in their workplace. Depending on the nature of the organisation in which they are doing their placement there may be special legislative requirements. These must be identified by the students before commencement of placement. The placement will not proceed if the student does not have the correct requirements at the time the placement is due to begin. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook 10 - 20 minutes each week S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 10 – 20 minutes each week to complete the Log/Workbook and 20 – 30 minutes Evaluation / Interview of Academic and Workplace Supervisors  20 N Individual Y  Report 3000 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ali Al-Ashwal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ali Al-Ashwal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Master of Project Management (3752)