Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3011 Public Memory and Commemoration Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101253 Coordinator Pamela James Opens in new window Description Throughout history various forms of material culture (such as art, architecture, sculpture, objects and photographs) have been used to memorialize individuals as well as to commemorate events, both personal and national.  As such, an examination of commemorative works offer valuable insights into the production of public memory and history.  This subject explores the particular contexts of such memorials; their meaning, design and, politics.  The diverse expressions of commemoration in Australia and the consequent production of public memory provides the arena for such considerations. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Arts and Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0528 - Dangerous Visions LGYA 1028 - Dangerous Visions Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use particular examples to explore the construct of public memory through commemorative modes.
Describe the relationships between public memory, commemoration and political constructs.
Analyse the relationship between the commemorative object, public memory and the aesthetic models of a particular period.
Explore the consequences of changing perceptions of meaning in commemorative objects. Subject Content 1. Design, politics and the construction of public memory.
2. The diverse expressions of commemoration
3. The changing meanings and contexts of memory: Rayner Hoff and Sacrifice
4. Public Memory, Mourning and Memorialisation: Road side memorials, funereal cultures and 'high' art commemorations.
5. Remembering and Re-Telling: Stories, images and meanings in personal collections.
6. Memento Mori and Memorabillia
7. Maintaining the past. The renovation of the Queen Victoria Building and State Theatre in Sydney and Captain Cook's cottage in Melbourne
8. Art and commemoration. Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graphic and Design (DESN)