Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 4004 Classical Texts in Chinese Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401100 Coordinator Shengxi (George) Zhang Opens in new window Description This subject provides further learning experiences that enable the students to explore the original theories on physiology, pathology, diagnosis, differentiation and treatment of diseases through select periods of Chinese history. Many theoretical concepts, diagnostic systems and therapeutic methods of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) are still in current usage, and will be covered through the study of important classical texts and academic schools of TCM thought. This subject expands upon the student's understanding of TCM theories and practice principles through studies of the classical literature. School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) CMPL 2006 AND
CMPL 3002 Incompatible Subjects CMPL 7006 - Classical Texts in Chinese Medicine (PG) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4710 - Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the academic thoughts and achievements of the major schools and classical texts that helped form the basis of contemporary TCM practice.
Analyse the approaches to the pathogenesis, development, differentiation and treatment of the Cold-injured Diseases, Warm Diseases and chronic diseases covered in the classical texts used in this unit.
Define the strategy and methodology employed in the Shang Han Lun and Wenbing Xue texts. Subject Content 1. Introduction to the key classical texts in TCM including Huang Di Nei Jing (Inner Classic of Yellow Emperor), Nanjing (The Classic on Difficulties), Shang Han Za Bing Lun (Treatise on Cold-injured and Miscellaneous Diseases) and Wen Bing Xue (The Study of Warm Diseases).
2. Introduction to the historical development and the characteristics of the major academic schools of TCM.
3. Theoretical overview of Shang Han Lun (Treatise on Cold-injured and Miscellaneous Diseases) and Wen Bing Xue (The Study of Warm Diseases) including diagnostic differentiation and treatment principles. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Shengxi (George) Zhang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine (4710) Complementary Therapies (CMPL)