Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 3013 Social Design: Research and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102274 Coordinator Leo Robba Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the idea that graphic designers can be agents of change. Set project briefs will focus on social and political issues exploring the potential inherent in graphic design practice to make a real difference to society. The subject will encourage students to go beyond the definition of a problem solver, encouraging them to act as a problem seeker, who can use their design thinking skills to develop ideas that respond proactively to society's problems rather than reacting to a client's set brief. The subject will introduce further design-led, social and participatory research methods, that continue to build on the design process, and further expand the methods that underpin aspects of research and practice during the remainder of the degree. Students will refine and develop their visual language skills, in combination with material and digital skills, facilitating their development as an independent learner. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 2006 OR
DESN 2014 Equivalent Subjects DESN 3004 Design Research Training Assumed Knowledge Students should have completed one major pairing. Learning Outcomes Undertake independent research relevant to a brief, with particular emphasis on the effective critical review of research findings and the translation of these into design strategy and outcome in an iterative process.
Exhibit a reflective and creative approach to project development and the design process
Employ a design process and practice in a context that requires sensitivity to, and an awareness of, social, cultural and environmental issues
Design an appropriately targeted communication strategy for a defined audience, group or stakeholder
Demonstrate ability to work collaboratively and respond effectively to feedback
Demonstrate ability to explain the process of design development and present soundly justified design concepts and ideas. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 - 1,500 words plus images 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 500 - 750 words plus images 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task Student group will produce design campaign collateral (as per brief) to be featured in a 3 minute pitch video linked to a website. Plus a report of 500 words plus images. 30 N Group Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Leo Robba Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Graphic Design, Major (0073) Graphic Design, Minor (0073) Graphic and Design (DESN)