Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3005 Developing Web Applications with XML Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300111 Coordinator Heidi Bjering Opens in new window Description This third year subject provides a comprehensive coverage of XML, related emerging technologies and their use in web applications. Students will be given opportunities to develop web based information systems which rely upon these technologies. This subject is heavily oriented to practical based work. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge 300582-Technologies for Web Applications, 300580-Programming Fundamentals. Learning Outcomes Create functional and practical client side web applications using XML
Create functional and practical Web applications in XML utilising server side scripting
Understand and explain the use of XML for document management, web sites and application development/integration
Identify and explain how XML and related technologies are currently being applied in the real world
Implement the concept of Document Type Definitions
Implement the concept of XML Schema
Implement transformation of XML documents using CSS, XSLT.
Explain the use of Xlink, Xpointer and Xpath to retrieve information from XML documents Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 4 exercises 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project approximately 25 hours work outside of class time 25 N Individual Y  Applied Project Approximately 25 hrs work outside of class time 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Information Systems (INFS) Web Application Development (for Computing Students), Minor (0151)