Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 3008 Instrumentation and Measurement Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300075 Coordinator Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window Description Through practical exercises students will engage with engineering measurement and instrumentation systems. Students determine the most appropriate measurement method and instrument, such as multimeters, digital oscilloscopes and interfacing modules, for particular applications. They will gain experience with the measurement of physical quantities and the instrumentation required to accurately present information to a controller. Additionally, transducers used to measure common physical quantities are presented in detail, while instrumentation includes a detailed analysis of zero-span circuits, Wheatstone bridges, instrumentation amplifiers, isolation amplifiers, voltage-to-current and voltage-to-frequency modules used for faithful signal transmission, digital-to-analogue and analogue-to-digital circuits to deepen student learning. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electronic Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 2001 OR
ENGR 2001 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Make use of a variety of transducers to measure physical parameters
Estimate the errors involved in making measurements
Design and test electronic instrumentation using discrete and integrated circuit components
Interface a wide variety of transducers
Utilize A/D and D/A converters in the context of digital control
Avoid configurations of equipment that lead to grounding problems Subject Content Estimation of errors in measurements.
Transducers, primary & secondary sensors.
General measurement systems.
Design of Signal Conditioners.
Effects of loading in electronic circuits.
Noise in measurements.
Aspects of grounding practices.
A-D/D-A Conversion. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 4 submissions required 50 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)