Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 0002 Accounting Fundamentals (WSTC) Credit Points 5 Legacy Code 900010 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description Accounting is the practice of recording, classifying, summarising, analysing and interpreting information, of a commercial nature for the purpose of helping people make decisions.  In the world of business, the role of accounting is to support management in providing timely and accurate financial information about the business so that informed decisions can be made.  This subject examines the basic principles underpinning accounting and connects the accounting process to financial decision making for a business. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects ACCT 0001 - Accounting Fundamentals (WSTC Prep) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the role of Accounting in business
Explain basic Accounting principles and standards.
Complete Analysis Charts and record transaction details
Construct basic financial statements.
Demonstrate simple budgeting and CVP analysis skills.
Apply accounting knowledge in basic financial decision-making Subject Content Topic 1 What is Accounting?
Forms of ownership
The nature, purpose, role and main principles of accounting
The accounting equation
Topic 2 Recording transactions
Transaction analysis
Organisation of accounting information through the double entry system
Topic 3 Preparation of Financial Statements
The main financial summaries used by accountants
Topic 4 Management Accounting
Budgeting
Basic cost behavior and CVP analysis
Topic 5 Accounting for financial decision-making
The financial environment of business
Interpretation of financial statements
Impact of decisions based on interpretation of financial statements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hr 10 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1 hr 20 N Individual Y  Participation Weekly 10 N Individual Y  Case Study 1.5 hrs 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hrs 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT)