Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 2014 Object Oriented Programming Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300147 Coordinator Vernon Asuncion Opens in new window Description This subject presents the concepts and principles of programming languages with the emphasis on object oriented paradigm. It addresses the importance of the separation of behaviour and implementation as well as effective use of encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism. The students will gain intensive training in programming skills with supervised laboratory sessions and task oriented assignments. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 1005 OR
ENGR 1045 Restrictions Before taking COMP 2014, students must pass either COMP 1005 or ENGR 1045 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the principles of object oriented programming
Explain the concepts of abstract data types, encapsulation and information hiding, class inheritance and polymorphism.
Write programs to demonstrate understanding of encapsulation, data hiding, compositions and basic data operations.
Write program in object oriented style to solve real-world problems using inheritance and polymorphism. Subject Content 1. Concepts and principles of object oriented programming languages
2. Elements of syntax and semantics of programming languages
3. OOP concepts: encapsulation, information hiding, class inheritance, and polymorphism
4. Abstract classes and interfaces
5. Programming styles, conventions, pitfalls and debugging
6. API: utility classes, arrays, collections
7. OO approach in other programming languages Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 10 hour average workload 15 N Individual Y  Professional Task 10 hour average workload  15 N Individual Y  Practical 2 hours (for 12 weeks)  20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours  50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Vernon Asuncion Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vernon Asuncion Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Minor (0031) Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Computational Mathematics, Testamur Major (T118) Computer Science (COMP) Cybersecurity Systems, Minor (0277) Data Science, Testamur Major (T079) Game Programming, Testamur Major (T061) Robotics, Minor (0275) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105) Video Games, Minor (0276)