Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 3005 Planning the City: Development, Community and Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101593 Coordinator Anna Leditschke Opens in new window Description This subject aims to provide students with a fundamental understanding of the role of government, focusing on the role and nature of planning across all levels of government from a variety of theoretical frameworks. It presents a critical examination of the urban development and planning processes, with particular attention given to the environmental and political issues associated with planning at the local government level. It looks at the changes and challenges confronting local government in view of the demands made on them by the changing social and economic conditions and societal values such as those relating to requirements for public participation, transparency and accountability. The subject also examines the role of private sector in planning and assessment processes. School Social Sciences Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the historical background and significance of the Planning profession;
Apply the key concepts involved in planning and managing development within the context of local planning;
Analyse urban development and planning processes within the planning framework; and
Explain changes in planning processes that reflect evolution of socioeconomic and cultural values. Subject Content 1. Origins of town planning
2. The rationale for planning and regulation
3. The political and environmental issues related to the implementation of planning
4. Strategic planning
5. The development control system
6. Participatory planning, access and equity
7. Changes and challenges for Local Government
8. Planning by private sector Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Anna Leditschke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anna Leditschke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Geography and Urban Studies, Major (0010) Geography and Urban Studies, Minor (0010) Place Management and Planning, Major (0304) Secondary Geography Education, Major (0355) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129) Urban Studies, Major (0162)