Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7010 Customer Value Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200791 Coordinator Nicole Stegemann Opens in new window Description In an economy where products, marketing campaigns and management practises are ever changing, business executives are increasingly recognising that understanding the value of their customers is vital to the survival of the business.  Loyal customers are what every organisation seeks. However, increasingly complex supply/demand relationships also result in 'promiscuity' among customers. Therefore, it is crucial that managers have the skills to not only strive for excellence and consistency in product-centric perspectives, but also foster and strengthen those that are customer-centric.  This subject fundamentally examines the opportunities and challenges in: a) identifying customers, b) adding value to supplier/consumer relationships, including tools that firms/organisations can use to provide value for customers while ensuring profitability over the entire life of the relationship. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects MKTG 7009 - Customer Relationship Marketing Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2755 Master of Business Administration, 2757 Graduate Certificate in Business Administration, 2762 Executive Master of Business Administration. Assumed Knowledge It is expected that students will have a basic understanding of marketing prior to the commencement of this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a knowledge of key Customer Relationship and Value Management concepts and techniques;
Evaluate the complexity of customer and organisation interaction as part of the value process;
Demonstrate the importance of Customer Relationship and Value Management strategies to enhance customer relationships;
Develop Customer Relationship and Value Management strategies for marketing organisation including non-profit organisations. Subject Content 1. Defining who ?ecustomers?f are:
- the differences between promiscuous vs. loyal customers;
- backward vs. forward relationships;
- characteristics of potential customer.
2. How different environments impact customer profiles, including Business to Business (B2B), Business to Consumer (B2C), Small to Medium sized Enterprise (SME), government, and not for profit organisations
3. Identifying potential customers in new/existing markets, and incorporating the global customer perspective
4. Identifying/defining the value of customers
5. Adding value via competitive offerings, including those that are not always based on profit decisions
6. How customers perceive, create and demand value
7. Understanding customer and organisational interaction as drivers of value Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,500 words  30 N Individual Y  Report Report (30%): 1,500 words, Presentation (10%): 15-30 minutes. 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project Report (20%): 2,000 words, Class activity (10%): 15-25 minutes. 30 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)