Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7027 Forensic Research 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301130 Coordinator Mark Williams Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the knowledge gained in the prerequisite subject Forensic Research 1 and further develops skills to enable the independent and confident planning, design and execution of an original forensic research project chosen by the student. The skills and tools acquired in Forensic Research 1 will help facilitate effective communication of research project findings through scientific report writing and presentation in formats appropriate for international journal publication and conferences. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 7026 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Master of Forensic Science, the Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science, or the Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of research methodology as per the learning outcomes of the prerequisite subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan and implement a forensic research study using methods, skills and tools learned and developed in the prerequisite unit.
Apply appropriate statistical methods to analyse experimental datasets and interpret results in the context of current literature.
Apply critical and lateral thinking skills to independent forensic research.
Effectively communicate and transfer forensic research knowledge using skills developed for report writing and presentation.
Independently and confidently execute original forensic research, with understanding and respect for management and research responsibilities. Subject Content Plan and conduct a 12-week research project (120 hours) in a chosen area of forensic science using the framework and methodologies provided in the prerequisite subject Forensic Research 1. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam  100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)