Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3012 Health Promotion Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400784 Coordinator Justin Guagliano Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the knowledge gained in Approaches to Health Promotion. It provides the opportunity to apply health promotion theory to practical projects in the field related to current population health priorities, through 120 hours service learning experience. It is concerned with developing knowledge and skills related to needs analysis, prioritising, and awareness of core values and principles associated with health promotion practice. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 2001 or
PUBH 1010 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4656 B Health Science/6000 Dip Health Science/B Health Science (Health Promotion) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate communication, professionalism and ethical skills towards effective health promotion practice
Identify elements of best practice in health promotion and their application to contemporary health promotion practice
Critically evaluate a range of appropriate sources and techniques for gathering information on community health needs
Analyse data to effectively determine community health needs
Identify relevant partners and networks for health promotion
Apply health promotion competencies, core values and principles to plan feasible and innovative strategies targeting community health needs
Present to peers on a health promotion initiative
Demonstrate appropriate health promotion competencies during practical placement experience in a health promotion organisation Subject Content 1. Orientation to service learning.
2. Theoretical basis of needs analysis and approaches in health promotion.
3. Knowledge of sources of information and techniques for gathering information (sourcing data, community mapping, focus groups, interviews, community meetings).
4. Approaches to analysing and presenting information based on health needs.
5. Techniques for prioritising health issues.
6. Core values in health promotion (participation, capacity building, social justice, diversity).
7. Approaches to planning health promotion projects.
8. Preparing and presenting information to peers.
9. Networks and community partners.
10. Issues influencing health and health promotion. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 15 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 25 N Individual Y  Professional Task 15 minute viva voce 10 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 word report 10 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance N/A S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)