Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 2010 Linear Algebra Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200027 Coordinator Shatha Aziz Opens in new window Description The objective of this subject is to present the main fundamentals of linear algebra and includes such topics as solving systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, Euclidean vector spaces, general vector spaces, inner product spaces and linear transformations. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Assumed Knowledge Solving systems of equations with two and three unknowns, basic matrix operations, including multiplication. Learning Outcomes Implement Gaussian elimination to solve systems of linear equations.
Use and apply vector operations such as the dot product, and concepts such as orthogonality, span, and linear dependence of vectors.
Use matrix operations, including matrix multiplication, matrix inversion and LU factorisation.
Use and apply concepts related to vector spaces, subspaces and the connection between dimension, linear independence, spanning sets, and basis.
Use and apply concepts related to basic linear transformations of the plane, general linear transformations, and the basic notion of kernel.
Evaluate determinants using a range of techniques.
Be able to compute the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a linear transformation.
Use the concept of orthogonality and orthogonal matrices, including orthogonal projections and the Gram-Schmidt process. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Weekly, 30 minutes each; 1% each, with the best 10 marks counted 10 N Individual Y  Participation Weekly Problem Sets, 3 hours in length 10 N Group/Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 50-minute closed book test 15 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 50-minute closed book test 15 N Individual Y  Final Exam Three-hour closed book examination 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Shatha Aziz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Shatha Aziz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Shatha Aziz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Bachelor of Mathematics (3778) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Games Development, Minor (0323) Mathematics (MATH) Mathematics Teaching Specialisation (Birth - 5/Birth -12), Minor (0157) Mathematics, Major (0059) Mathematics, Minor (0059) Multimedia Computing, Testamur Major (T147) Secondary Mathematics Education, Major (0350) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Software Development, Testamur Major (T148)