Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 5005 Construction Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Dominic Maley Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the foundational legal and technical concepts required to understand the specialised area of construction law practice. Students will examine the key issues, concepts and topics that are specific to construction law from project preparation, through to contract formation, regulation, procurement methodologies, and finally to dispute avoidance and management. Students will engage with construction practitioners to enhance their learning experiences in this subject. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a Post Graduate program. Learning Outcomes Analyse key legal information, concepts and theories used on construction projects.
Examine key technical principles relevant to the drafting of construction contracts.
Utilise and evidence-based approach to explore key contractual processes and administrative challenges typical of a construction contract.
Communicate practical, well-informed solutions to emerging legal issues relevant to construction contracts. 
Engage in independent investigations to enhance personal and professional development,
Collaborate with key stakeholders in response to legal issues in construction projects. Subject Content Introduction. Understanding the law: contracts and torts.
Interpreting Construction Contracts and Incorporating terms.
Regulation of the construction industry.
Participants in the construction industry.
Construction contracts: types and methodologies.
Security of performance
Contract administration.
Time, delay and liquidated damages.
Completion and Defects.
Dispute avoidance, management and resolution. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Jeremy Coggins, Tom Davies, Tony Earls, Phil Evans Understanding Construction Law, 2nd edition (LexisNexis, 2019) Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Dominic Maley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Christopher Maley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Dominic Maley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Construction Law (Exit) (3796) Issues in Construction Law, minor (0345) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Construction Law (3795) Master of Laws (2824)