Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 2001 Building Estimates and Tendering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301207 Coordinator Sepani Senaratne Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with an understanding of the principles of design economics and the factors that affect the cost of buildings. Students will learn cost planning process and will be introduced to a range of estimating techniques that could be used at various stages of a building project. A particular focus would be to understand the tendering process and how to prepare detailed estimates using unit rate method. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Surveying Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BLDG 2010 - Estimating 1 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss various factors that affect building costs and estimating accuracy.
Prepare preliminary estimates at early stages of a building project
Evaluate elemental cost plans and approximate quantities.
Prepare detailed building estimates for tender submission using pricing principles.
Use standard computer programs for estimating. Subject Content Factors affecting building costs and estimating accuracy.
Cost planning process
Preliminary estimating techniques
Elemental cost planning
Approximate quantities and Detailed Estimates
From an estimate to tender
Tendering process
Pricing principles: all-in rates, unit rate pricing and pricing preliminaries
Computer estimating software Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hour 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sepani Senaratne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sepani Senaratne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies (exit only) (3697) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Building (BLDG) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045)