Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3011 Obstetrics and Paediatrics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401072 Coordinator Liz Thyer Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to prepare the student for out-of-hospital care and management of obstetric, neo-natal and paediatric emergencies. It focuses on understanding human birth and development, normal and complicated delivery and the changes that occur in the pregnant woman.  Developmental changes throughout childhood and the skills required to manage a broad range of clinical paediatric emergencies are explored. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2018 AND
HLTH 2015 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and categorise typical and atypical growth and development from birth to adolescence
Describe and categorise typical and atypical growth and development of the pregnant woman
Demonstrate out-of-hospital assessment and management of select obstetric, neo-natal and paediatric emergencies
Apply clinical reasoning to manage obstetric, neo-natal and paediatric clinical problems in out-of-hospital settings
Justify a plan of management for an obstetric, neo-natal or paediatric problem that demonstrates professional and ethical behaviour and recognises the role of family and other health practitioners Subject Content Theory and practice, within the out-of-hospital setting, for:
1. Basic understanding of normal pregnancy and parturition
2. Common complications in pregnancy and obstetric emergencies
3. Assessment and management of the neonate
4. Basic understanding of typical and atypical growth and development from birth to adolescence
5. Relevant paediatric illnesses and trauma
6. Identifying relevant methods used to assess and monitor infants, children and adolescents, as appropriate to their needs
7. Management of paediatric cases using sound clinical reasoning and understanding the response of the child and the family
8. Relevant signs of child abuse and neglect Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam up to 30 minutes 40 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Liz Thyer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)