Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3031 The Brain and Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102207 Coordinator Neil Pedley Opens in new window Description Interest in the relationship between the brain and how people learn is at an all-time high. Surprisingly, most theories of teaching and learning say little about the brain. In an age where 'brain-based' educational products are a multimillion-dollar industry, there is a need for students, parents, and anybody with an interest in education to have some basic knowledge of the brain. This subject is designed to provide students with a straightforward introduction into the limitations and possibilities of brain function, especially with respect to memory and learning. In addition, this subject also examines motivation, exceptional learners, and challenging groups. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 3034 - Young People Their Futures and Education Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss aspects of the brain that underlie human cognition, problem-solving, motivation, and exceptional learners
Critique current theories of learning and teaching based on current knowledge of the human brain.
Apply current knowledge of the human brain to a range of teaching and learning scenarios.
Examine how deficiencies in brain development and social-contextual factors contribute to anti-social grouping of children and young people. Subject Content 1. The brain, evolution and culture. The intricacies of brain function particularly in relation to human memory and implications for teaching and learning. Comparisons between knowledge that humans have evolved to acquire (biologically primary knowledge) and knowledge that is the product of cultural advancements from the last few millennia (biologically secondary knowledge).
2. Motivation and learning. The study of human motivation of Freudian, behaviourist, social-cognitive, and neuroscience perspectives.
3. Exceptional learners. The cognitive and social-affective characteristics of exceptional learners, particularly school students identified as gifted and talented.
4. Group relationships and challenging groups. The ?esocial?f brain, in particular the importance that school-aged adolescents place on their peer-networks as they engage in complex inter-group relationships. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes each 50 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Neil Pedley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Teacher Education (TEAC)