Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2050 Medieval and Early Modern Literature Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102626 Coordinator Anthony Uhlmann Opens in new window Description While films and books related to the fantastic and supernatural (like Game of Thrones, Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter) are extremely popular, it is sometimes forgotten that these works draw heavily on historical literary forms and works that engaged directly with the cultures from which they emerged. This subject will look at examples of literature from the Medieval and Early Modern periods (between 1000 and 1800) and the social and cultural worlds they both represented and supported. It will ask how these works still inform how we understand and represent things today. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse a range of pre-twentieth century texts from various historical and/or cultural contexts.
Demonstrate a familiarity with key literary genres (for example epic poetry, pre-novelistic prose narrative, allegory, satire and the novel).
Compare and critique interrelations between literary texts and their historical and cultural contexts.
Interpret the effects of cultural, social, and technological change on literary production.
Recall and analyse information gathered from lectures and set written texts.
Discuss and apply ideas related to the major themes and content of the subject. Subject Content The epic poem and its transformations.
Medieval allegory.
Prose romance.
The rise of realism.
Prose satire.
The novel. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 25 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 35 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)