Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7061 Hysterectomy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401315 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   Students undertaking this subject will be expected to explore aspects of hysterectomy through various approaches in different clinical and pathological settings. This subject will enhance their ability to develop a foundation for improving their skills and achieving competency at hysterectomy, particularly utilising minimally invasive techniques.   This subject will allow students to explore the rationale behind decisions to perform a hysterectomy, the nuances of surgical techniques used in a safe manner. It will allow an appreciation of the pre-operative and post-operative issues to ensure optimal patient outcomes. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7046 Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7019 Laparoscopic Hysterectomy Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of an Advanced Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) and satisfactory completion of the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery [ie, Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program]. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate surgical principles involved in performing hysterectomy, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques.
Effectively diagnose and manage surgical complications with respect to hysterectomy
Critically assess important factors in pre-operative and post-operative care when performing hysterectomy
Critically review the medical literature on hysterectomy techniques and strategies to minimise and manage complications Subject Content 1.Surgical principles of hysterectomy, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques
2.Surgical techniques used at hysterectomy to prevent complications
3.Pre-operative and post-operative issues relevant to hysterectomy
4.Review the medical literature on hysterectomy techniques and strategies to minimise and manage complications Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 5,000 words in total: 1a. 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. ~ 1,000 words (SLO 2, 3) 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)