Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3098 Genders and sexualities: beyond the binary Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102733 Coordinator Kerry Robinson Opens in new window Description This subject encourages students to critically reflect on how their own identities and experiences of genders and sexualities are shaped by broader social practices that define what is natural and what is normal. The subject focuses on two substantive topics: the body and institutions. Bodies are usually understood through biological explanations of gender and sexuality. However, this subject will consider how the body is shaped by the social discourses and practices through which genders and sexualities are produced. The subject investigates how age, race, class and ability are coded differently in terms of gender and sexuality. Institutions - families, schools, workplaces and religions - will be studied as sites where genders and sexualities may be observed but also produced and negotiated. School Social Sciences Discipline Gender Specific Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse gender and sexuality in historical, political and social context.
Apply a critical understanding of social theories to gender and sexuality.
Demonstrate capacity to apply theories of gender and sexuality to personal experiences.
Assess institutional discourses of gender and sexuality. Subject Content Introduction: Gender, sexuality, identity and intersectionality
Theoretical perspectives on gender and sexuality; relationship between gender and sexuality
Gender, sexuality & power: Discourse, knowledge & subjectivity
Gender and sexuality across the lifespan
Gender, sexuality and the body
Gender, sexuality and violence
Gender, sexuality and the family
Gender, sexuality and the workplace
Gender, sexuality and education
Gender, sexuality and politics (National & global) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Case Study 1,000 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kerry Robinson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Kerry Robinson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Gender Studies, Minor (0295) Sociology, Major (0030) Sociology, Minor (0030) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)