Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2010 Chinese 202 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102025 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This is a post-beginner subject for intermediate level study of modern Chinese (Mandarin) language and its culture suitable for Post Beginners or an equivalent level. Students can take it as part of a major/sub-major or as an elective subject. It aims to develop listening and speaking skills in a real communicative setting. Students will learn Pinyin, vocabulary, expressions and grammatical structures in a wide range of daily situations. In addition, students will have the chance to learn and research on some interesting aspects of Chinese culture. Differentiated learning and assessment tasks and multimedia activities are utilised to cater to non-background and quasi-background learners. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Mandarin Chinese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School).  Note: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Chinese are encouraged enrol in Chinese 201 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2049 - Language and Communication Skills 2A Chinese Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of 20 credit points of Chinese Language at Level 1 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes use a core vocabulary and commonly used expressions to carry out routine tasks;
engage in simple conversations with native and non-native speakers of the language in daily situations;
demonstrate comprehension of basic sentence structures in spoken Chinese;
display an awareness of the different varieties of spoken language;
apply the cultural knowledge to real life situations and develop links with Chinese speakers.
apply independent learning strategies to acquire spoken Chinese or another language. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Fortnightly language and cultural tasks 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 to 10 mins with 300-character written work (20% Presentation and 10% Written Script) 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1.5 - 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Language and Literature (LANG)