Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7009 Clinical Allergy Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401064 Coordinator Miriam Codarini Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term). This yearlong subject will consist of 50 hours of supervised consultation of patients with allergic diseases within the setting of a specialist Immunology/Allergy clinic.  The purpose of Clinical Allergy is to apply previously acquired knowledge of allergic diseases to patient care in real time. Students will be supervised by experienced Clinical Immunologists/Allergists and develop skills in allergy diagnosis and management of children and adults. Clinical experiences will include history taking, physical examination, skin prick testing and spirometry interpretation, and management of various allergic conditions.  Students will need to participate in online case conference discussions also, and attend two course workshops, the Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy (ASCIA) Annual Scientific Meeting and the Macarthur Series in Immunology. School Medicine Discipline Internal Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7002 AND
MEDI 7003 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7792 - Clinical Allergy 1 LGYA 7793 - Clinical Allergy 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4689 Graduate Certificate in Allergic Diseases or 4753 Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) Assumed Knowledge Must have completed a medical degree (MBBS, MBChB or equivalent qualification) and be practising as a medical practitioner in clinical practice.  Also, must have sound knowledge and understanding of immunological concepts and clinical aspects of allergic diseases including diagnosis and management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine aspects of the professional practice required of doctors caring for patients with allergic diseases, including their limitations, referral pathways for complex patients, and reflection and collaboration with other health professionals.
Recognise and interpret patient history, physical examination and test results.
Diagnose and manage patients with allergic diseases with a safe, caring, ethical and professional practice.
Perform and analyse common tests used to investigate and monitor patients with allergic diseases.
Communicate relevant clinical information about allergic diseases to patients, their family and health professionals.
Perform self-directed learning strategies to enhance evidence based clinical practice. Subject Content This subject consists of the following clinical experiences:
1. History and physical examination of patients with allergic diseases
2. Investigation of patients with allergy including skin prick testing and spirometry
3. Management of patients with allergic diseases including anaphylaxis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 1.5 hrs  x 12 S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task 30 mins each S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task Variable time per patient (total 8-15 patients depending on option chosen for clinical placement) S/U N Individual Y  Presentation Variable time per patient (up to 4 patients depending on option chosen for clinical placement) S/U N Individual Y  Professional Task 300 words each (total 8-15 letters depending on option chosen for clinical placement) S/U N Individual Y  Log/Workbook Throughout the year (all clinical consultations undertaken during placement) S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Miriam Codarini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Miriam Codarini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Allergic Diseases (exit only) (4754) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Medical Studies (MEDI)