Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3008 Complex Forensic Studies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300911 Coordinator Val Spikmans Opens in new window Description This is an advanced and integrating capstone subject for students studying forensic science. It incorporates previous science, forensic science and social science subjects to form a comprehensive examination of the functionality of forensic evidence within the contemporary Australian judicial system. This capstone highlights the needs for an interdisciplinary approach to define and critique forensic science evidence from various perspectives including science, law, criminology, policing and social science. Students are required to use their skills and knowledge with additional independent research and inquiry using a range of set literature. The subject will study a range of contemporary issues including how the judicial system evaluates the reliability of evidence from an admissibility threshold, identification evidence from CCTV, contextual bias with forensic examination, contamination issues with forensic evidence and methods of expressing forensic findings and/or significance. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 3026 - Forensic Biology Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points.  Students must be enrolled in 3589 Bachelor of Science (Forensic Science), 3562 Bachelor of Science (Advanced Science) (Forensic Science), MT3022 Forensic Science, MT3023 Forensic Chemistry or MT3024 Forensic Biology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the interconnections between forensic science and its wider social and legal contexts, both within Australia and Internationally.
Apply logical, critical and creative skills to solving a range of problems in a forensic context.
Integrate and manage several different classes of forensic evidence within an overall case.
Describe and evaluate an understanding of court structure and procedures.
Explain and critique the principles of ethical and professional behaviour during a forensic case and describe the potential conflicts of interest that can occur during the collection and analysis of evidence, and its presentation in court. Subject Content 1. Current issues with forensic evidence.
2. Identification evidence: contemporary issues.
3. Identification from CCTV images.
4. Contamination of forensic evidence.
5. Contextual bias with forensic examinations.
6. Various case studies relevant to unit content.
7. Expressing forensic findings and evidence significance.
8. Daubert ruling. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words (x 3 workshops) 20 N Group N  Report Report - maximum 2000 words. 25 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes per quiz (x 7 quizzes) 30 N Individual N  Short Answer 300 words per response (x 4) 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Chris Lennard Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)