Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7013 At the cultural interface - learning two ways Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102165 Coordinator Erin Mackenzie Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core units are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. History, politics and ignorance make the cultural interface between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians contested and fraught. In turn, cultural misunderstanding contributes to inequities in educational attainment, employment and social disadvantage. Students apply a critical perspective to the discourses surrounding Aboriginal disadvantage and white privilege. They develop processes to engage respectfully with local Aboriginal and Islander communities in order to learn and share in a two-way exchange of knowledge. They listen deeply and intersubjectively in their exploration of Aboriginal worldviews, and they reflect on what it means to decolonise their own thinking so as to build partnerships based on mutuality and reciprocity. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate the issues that impact on social disadvantage in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
Apply critical race perspectives to analyse white privilege and dominant knowledge systems
Advocate for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, worldviews and languages and identify ways to support them to flourish
Reflect critically on the process of decolonisation in terms of personal insights and contributions
Communicate ethically and respectfully with local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people Engage effectively with the diversity of circumstances and needs experienced within Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
Develop ethical and constructive professional and research partnerships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander individuals and communities Subject Content 1. Rights and wrongs: traversing the contact zone in black and white Australia
2. Deep listening: stories of life, land, dispossession and remembering
3. The cultural interface - no neutral place to be
4. Whose knowledge matters? The need for unlearning
5. Intersubjectivity and decolonising practices
6. Being in place, sharing in country
7. Research politics; decolonising methodologies
8. Closing the gap? Deinstitutionalising whiteness Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,500 words 50 N Individual N  Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)