Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 7017 Paediatric Physiotherapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401047 Coordinator Genevieve Dwyer Opens in new window Description From 2018 students should take 401106 - Paediatric Physiotherapy. This subject aims to prepare the student as a competent entry-level practitioner in paediatric physiotherapy. It focuses on understanding the changes which occur from infancy to maturity and the impact of congenital or acquired conditions, or lifestyle diseases causing dysfunction. Clinical and ethical reasoning and family-centred practice are both stressed. The approach will also emphasise the role of physiotherapy within inter-professional teams to prepare for different work settings (acute care, rehabilitation and/or community). The subject integrates prior learning from previous years (especially subjects related to neurology musculoskeletal and cardiopulmonary physiotherapy and exercise rehabilitation). School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3009 AND
REHA 3018 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy, 4667 Master of Physiotherapy or 4668 Bachelor of Health Science (Honours)/Master of Physiotherapy Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline typical growth and development from birth to adolescence; and discuss the occurrence of variations in typical development and possible reasons for these.
Describe the potential impact of atypical growth and development on the skeletal, respiratory and/or neurological system of a child with congenital or acquired condition.
Identify the potential psychosocial impact of illness, disease and/or disability on a child, their family and the community contexts.
Research and determine relevant methods used to assess and/or monitor infants, children and adolescents as appropriate to their needs.
Solve relevant complex paediatric clinical problems accessing appropriate resources and using a process of clinical reasoning.
Select physiotherapy interventions based on the best evidence available and identify how the intervention(s)/management would be implemented and evaluated, ensuring safe work practices.
Justify a plan of management for a paediatric problem that demonstrates professional and ethical behaviour, and also recognises the potential role of other health practitioners, as indicated. Subject Content Theory, research and practice, within a paediatric physiotherapy context, for:
1. Typical growth and development from birth to adolescence
2. The impact of atypical growth and development on a child with a congenital or acquired condition
3. The potential psychosocial impact of illness, disease and/or disability on a child, their family and community
4. Working across a variety of workplace settings (acute care, rehabilitation and community-based) and within a family-centred practice philosophy and ICF framework
5. Identifying relevant methods used to assess and/or monitor infants, children and adolescence, as appropriate to their needs
6. Planning case management of complex paediatric clinical problems using sound clinical reasoning and illustrating physiotherapy practice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Developmental assessment and self-reflection report 1000 words 20 N Individual   Case Compilation 3000 words 30 N Individual   Written examination 2 hours 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)