Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7087 Pedagogical Leadership: Critically Reflective Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102107 Coordinator Jennifer Green Opens in new window Description In this subject, students use the conceptual frame of pedagogical leadership to examine discourses of leadership and pedagogy in early childhood settings to re-shape practice. The principles and practices of Belonging, Being and Becoming: The Early Years Learning Framework for Australia are used as a basis for critical reflection on the student’s own practice and areas for ongoing learning and change. Students will develop their research skills and capacity to lead pedagogy by engaging in critical analysis of current research and evolving theories of leadership to design and undertake an action research project. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) TEAC 7103 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7042 - Engaging Children in Curriculum Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse contemporary literature about leadership and pedagogy in early childhood, school and community settings.
Discuss the impact of pedagogical leadership on quality teaching and learning outcomes for children.
Examine the research process and the role of each step of the process for quality research to build evidence-base practice.
Critically reflect on personal professional practice.
Develop an action research project.
Evaluate the effectiveness of the action research process in improving outcomes in professional practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Applied Project 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)