Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2040 Politics of Sex and Gender Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100882 Coordinator Arunima Kishore Das Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the study of the contemporary politics of sex and gender. Students study key concepts and learn to apply these concepts in the analysis of current issues. Concepts covered include the meanings of sex, gender and sexuality; biology and social constructionism; gendered bodies; doing gender; equality and difference. The concept of intersectionality - how gender intersects in complex relationships of power with other differences such as ethnicity, sexuality, dis/ability and class - is central to this area of study. The subject explores the meaning and potential for social change for a more equitable society and the obstacles to that. Strategies examined range from the use of targets and quotas, to social and cultural activism. Students have the opportunity to explore areas of personal and scholarly interest. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Gender Specific Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0160 - Sex Gender and Social Relations Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain and apply key concepts used to analyse the politics of sex and gender
Undertake independent research on the politics of sex and gender
Assess the quality and relevance of academic research on a specific topic in this area of study
Effectively communicate the results of research in written formats Subject Content De-constructing Gender
Intersectionality: Living and researching multiple differences
Re-producing Gender
Gender, State, Power and Violence
Sexualities
 Understanding Masculinities
Race, Gender and Sexuality
Indigenous and Decolonial Understanding of Sex and Gender
Sexual Harassment against Women: Analysing Case Studies of Gender-Based Violence
Feminist Activism and Solidarity Building Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 20 N Individual N  Poster 500 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Participation 13 weeks 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Arunima Kishore Das Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Arunima Kishore Das Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Arunima Kishore Das Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Gender Studies, Minor (0295) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)