Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7003 Managing Cities: History and Theory Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101633 Coordinator Cameron Mcauliffe Opens in new window Description This subject concerns philosophical thought and critical thinking in public planning. It develops an understanding of planning theories and examines past and present trends in this area. It reviews the theoretical frameworks for an insight into planning processes and analyses the economic, spatial and socio-political dimensions of activities involved. School Social Sciences Discipline Architecture and Urban Environment, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1293 - Metropolitan Structures Cities in Transformation Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Assess and create a collaborative explanation of the historic development of urban and regional planning.
Critically apply and relate understandings of planning histories and theories to contemporary planning.
Combine knowledge of planning histories and theories to explain how the role of the planner and planning practices have changed. Subject Content Historical overview of planning as a profession
History of urban planning of pre-industrial cities
Nineteenth century slums and the Garden City movement
The modern and the post-modern city
History of evolution of modes of transport, city form and suburbanization
The typologies of planning theory
Systems and rational theories of planning
Marxism and critical theory
Planning under neo-liberalism
Advocacy Planning
Post-modern theories
Post-colonial theories of planning
Collaborative planning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Group Y  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Cameron Mcauliffe Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Bachelor of Research Studies (Planning) (8119) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management and Planning (1676) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)