Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7037 Psychological Practice in Contemporary Contexts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102808 Coordinator Janet Conti Opens in new window Description The ability to work with mental health issues and psychological distress that arises within a range of contexts is an essential skill for Clinical Psychologists. This subject equips students with skills in assessment, formulation and tailored psychological interventions for those who experience psychological distress within family systems and broader socio-cultural contexts; including abuse and violence; working within medico-legal systems, and broader socio-cultural contexts. The subject will explore theories, psychological techniques and prepare students to working within these settings that include inter-disciplinary collaboration and communication with multidisciplinary health services and legal practitioners.

Please note: some of the activities in this subject may include experiential learning, for example where students may be asked to take on the client role using their own lived experience, to provide opportunity for training in therapeutic modalities that are more “real-world”. Students may opt-out of these activities without consequence through speaking to the subject coordinator and alternative arrangements for student learning opportunities will be organised. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7027 AND
BEHV 7006 AND
BEHV 7029 AND
BEHV 7038 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Create a treatment plan that is tailored to the identified person within their family and socio-cultural context, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Apply therapeutic skills in a psychological intervention that conceptualises the person within their psychosocial and cultural context; and reflect on the process of the psychological intervention.
Reflect on the roles and functions of clinical psychologists in common interprofessional contexts. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,000 words 40 Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 40 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 40 minutes 40 Y Individual Y  Reflection 1,000 words 20 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Janet Conti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Janet Conti Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812)