Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3006 Emerging Trends in Information Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300584 Coordinator Ana Hol Opens in new window Description This subject provides a means for students to self-reflect on their career and explore the changing nature of information systems in organisations via one of the following: engagements with local businesses, specifically crafted study tours or focused internships. Students will study the role that emerging technologies play in selection, design and development of information systems including business intelligent systems. Students will be able to research, assess and apply new technologies while networking and engaging with real life businesses, as well as develop and introduce effective strategies for achieving change and improvement that can be delivered by successfully implementing emerging technologies. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 140 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to Review and analyse current and emerging trends in information systems technologies, including implementation challenges and future impacts on individuals, organizations, and society.
Analyse business requirements and develop plans for information systems applications, with attention to stakeholder engagement.
Examine and evaluate the roles and suitability of business intelligence and data mining strategies for information systems applications.
Assess organisational readiness for new technologies with a user-centred approach.
Examine and evaluate collaborative information systems technologies and applications. 
Analyse the ethical and social implications of information systems technologies, considering their effects on diverse communities. 
Develop skills for applying information systems strategies in future career settings, incorporating project management, design thinking and change management techniques.
Review, analyse, and summarise current literature in selected information systems topics, including research on emerging trends and innovations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 2000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group N  Applied Project 3-5 min video and 1A4 PowerPoint Page 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ana Hol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information Systems (3687) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Big Data, Major (0144) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Information Systems (INFS) Information Systems Analytics, Major (0166)