Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1039 Introduction to Screen Media Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102825 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description Welcome to the dynamic and evolving world of Screen Media. In this subject you will learn how to analyse and critically evaluate cinema, from classic Hollywood to Arthouse and Australian films, along with a range of compelling documentary, animation, immersive and interactive content from around the globe. You'll reflect on the impact of technology and the different approaches to creating and producing powerful content. Inspired by best practice, you will have the opportunity to plan and create simple, short works of your own using accessible media. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic and Design Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0161 - Image Sound and Text COMM 1028 - Screen Media COMM 1015 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production COMM 1016 - Foundations of Media Arts and Production (WSTC) COMM 1040 - Introduction to Screen Media (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an awareness of the processes and practices of screen media arts production and the interdisciplinary and multi-platform nature of screen media arts production.
Apply creative strategies and technical skills of screen media production in an environment that link them to theories and histories of screen media.
Critically review a screen media work.
Make a simple screen media work using accessible mobile and online tools and critically reflect on the outcome.
Assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Visual language and conventions
Editing in Screen Media
Sound in Screen Media
Screen media narrative structure, genres and diverse production models
Introduction to Documentary
Australian Screen Media
Asia/Pacific Screen Media
Innovative storytelling for the screen, past present and future
Careers in Screen Media Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual N  Discourse Analysis 1,000 words equivalent 30 N Individual N  Participation 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words plus screen media work (maximum of 3 minutes) 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1736) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Screen Media, Major (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)