Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7016 Endometriosis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401058 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.   Endometriosis commonly presents with pelvic pain and infertility, with gynaecological surgery being a significant treatment option.  Surgery in women with endometriosis can be challenging, with gynaecological surgeons requiring advanced training and a multi-disciplinary approach to obtain the best patient outcomes.   This subject will provide the students with the opportunity to explore management aspects of endometriosis tailoring treatment options depending on the patient's symptoms and goals.   By enrolling in this subject, the student will be expected to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects of endometriosis, focusing on minimally invasive techniques. This includes exploring the pre-operative rationale to perform surgery, intra-operative nuances of surgical techniques used and post-operative care of importance to ensure the best outcomes for the patient. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Student must be enrolled in 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of an Advanced Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) and satisfactory completion of the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery [ie, Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program]. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate diagnostic and treatment options for patients with endometriosis
Effectively counsel patients with endometriosis regarding treatment options and therapy dependent on patient symptoms and goals
Critique complex endometriosis surgical techniques, focusing on minimally invasive surgical techniques
Reflect on the importance of multi-disciplinary and collaborative surgical approaches for patients with severe endometriosis
Critically appraise the medical literature on specific aspects of endometriosis Subject Content 1. Aspects of the diagnosis and management of endometriosis
2. Tailoring treatment options dependent on the patient?fs symptoms and goals
3. The benefits and disadvantages of surgical intervention in endometriosis including complications from surgery
4. Complex surgical techniques, especially focusing on minimally invasive techniques required to surgically treat endometriosis
5. The importance of a multi-disciplinary and collaborative surgical approach with other surgical specialities in severe endometriosis to optimise patient outcomes
6. Review of current literature on endometriosis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Total 5,000 words: 1a. Literary Review 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. ~ 1,000 words (SLOs 2, 5) 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)