Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 3002 Assessment and Treatment of Offenders Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102068 Coordinator Erin Kruger Opens in new window Description This subject will provide an overview and analysis of the assessment and treatment of offenders from a range of perspectives. The assessment of violent, sexual, youth, gender, disabilities, cultural and institutional (i.e., policing and correctional) perspectives and developments will be considered in primarily Australian, but also, international contexts. There are equally variable treatment options considered including cognitive behavioural therapy, dialectical behavioural therapy, risk-need-responsivity, addictions, culturally appropriate, and alternatives such as music, animals, exercise, and art therapies. This subject will take a multi-disciplinary approach to the assessment and treatment of offenders, with particular attention to the inherent complexities and diversities associated with offender management. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 160 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critically evaluate the complexity and diversity of offender behaviours, thoughts, and actions, in relation to their assessment in a criminal justice context. 
2. Critically assess the associated range of offender treatment options and programs available in a criminal justice framework.
3. Critically analyse key theoretical and pragmatic academic literatures that relate to the assessment and treatment of offenders. Subject Content The assessment of young offenders
The assessment of offenders with gender and sexuality considerations
The assessment of offenders with disabilities
The assessment of Indigenous offenders
The assessment of offenders from police perspectives
The assessment of offenders from correctional perspectives
The treatment of offenders with Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)
The treatment of offenders with Dialectical Behavioural Therapy (DBT)
The treatment of offenders with the Risk-Need-Responsivity (RNR) approach
The treatment of offenders with addictions
The treatment of offenders with cultural considerations
Alternative offender treatments (Music, art, animals, exercise) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Erin Kruger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (1709) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST)