Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2021 Health Services Management (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700068 Coordinator Margaret Smith Opens in new window Description The health workplace is a complex and sophisticated environment that can be understood in many different ways and mean different things to different members of an organisation. Assumptions about organisational structure and action are based on conceptualisations and beliefs about the nature and goals of an organisation. This subject aims to develop an understanding of organisational theory and its application to management practice and organisational analysis in the health arena. School Health Sciences Discipline Public and Health Care Administration Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2020 - Health Services Management Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop an understanding of the fundamentals of organisations, organisational design and culture within health care services.
Analyse the strategic planning, strategic management, performance management and decision-making processes of the health system.
Explore the fundamentals of leading, including an examination of leading through communication, group dynamics and teamwork in health care.
Explore and reflect on their values and understanding about the way work is organised.
Explore the implications of varying skill levels on organisational structure and action within health services.
Distinguish between the different levels and types of control affecting health care organisations.
Demonstrate a basic understanding of risk management and WHS.
Understand the significance of management to the processes that ensure quality outcomes for both patients and staff in health services. Subject Content 1. Theoretical perspectives on health management.
2. Strategic management and strategic planning in health care.
3. Health managers and organisations.
4. Job design in health care.
5. Decision making strategies in health care.
6. Performance management in health care.
7. Fundamentals of leadership in health care.
8. Quality management in health.
9. Control strategies within health care organisations.
10. Introduction to risk management and WHS. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Tutorial papers 1500 words  20 N Individual   Assignment (1500 words) and ten minute presentation  35 N Individual   Major paper (2000 words) and presentation (ten minutes)   45 N Individual Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)