Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7007 Disaster and Emergency Management (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301050 Coordinator Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window Description This subject consists of project based studies that explore how human societies prepare for and respond to disasters and emergencies. The subject uses case studies to investigate the historical practice of preparation, prevention, response and recovery strategies for community safety during times of critical incidents. The subject will facilitate improved understanding by developing scenarios of impending issues such as natural disasters and man made emergencies. Focus will be on Australian national and State coordination arrangements for disaster planning including the comprehensive approach to emergency management. Students will need to attend a 5 day workshop and undertake a group presentation and report as well as an exercise in Incident Control System principles at a workshop. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Environmental Health Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Relate the role of the Australian and State governments and non-government institutions in the management of various disasters, emergencies and critical incidents;
Summarise the legislative arrangements for the management of emergency events;
Review the role of different agencies in managing emergency events;
Analyse the implementation of preparedness, prevention, response and recovery strategies for community safety during critical incidents;
Explain incident control systems and their importance in an emergency event;
Identify the role of professional practitioners in critical incident management planning;
Review the application of coordinated and cooperative arrangements for bushfire management in jurisdiction. Subject Content 1. Categorizing emergencies, disasters and critical incidents;
2. The role of various institutions in preventing, preparing for, responding to and recovering from emergencies and disasters;
3. Case studies of various historic events around emergency management;
4. The comprehensive approach to emergency and disaster management;
5. Australian national, State, regional and local emergency planning approaches;
6. Incident Control System (ICS) structures and managing incidents;
7. Public education for enhancing community resilience;
8. Role of professional practitioners in critical incident management (bushfire and other incidents). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2000 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 5000 words 40 N Group Y  Presentation 30 minutes presentation 10 N Group N  Professional Task 2500 words 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Graduate Diploma in Bushfire Protection (3793) Management, Testamur Major (T043) Master of Bushfire Protection (3708) Public Health (PUBH)