Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 2001 Approaches to Health Promotion Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400867 Coordinator Freya Macmillan Opens in new window Description For Campbelltown or Online 4656 Bachelor of Health Science students, 400867 Approaches to Health Promotion is replaced with 401392 Health Promotion Theory and Approaches. Health promotion is a process that seeks to enable individuals, carers, communities and populations to increase control over their health. It does so by addressing the determinants of health and equity issues, leading to improved health outcomes. Theoretical underpinnings of the various approaches to health promotion are explored in this unit. In addition, factors that enhance and limit health promotion are analysed in conjunction with bigger picture approaches of working with policy. The best evidence-based practice for health promotion is outlined together with the need to move beyond education. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 2011 - Essentials of Health Promotion PUBH 2002 - Approaches to Health Promotion (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of the Ottawa and Bangkok Charters and the Jakarta Declaration to different health promotion scenarios.
Identify and apply different theoretical positions to influence beliefs and health behaviours.
Identify the determinants of health and critically assess barriers to and factors enhancing health promotion action
Critically analyse ways of working effectively with individuals, carers, groups, communities and populations.
Apply health promotion competencies to conduct a stakeholder analysis and assess community needs and resources.
Plan and evaluate health promotion strategies for a relevant health issue. Subject Content 1. Health Promotion Theory and Models
2. Health Promotion Charters and Declarations
3. Health Promotion Professional Competencies and Skills
4. Evidence-based Practice in Health Promotion
5. National Strategies for Promoting Health in Australia
6. Promoting Health in Indigenous Communities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 x 10 MCQ 25 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1 page 5 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 10 x 1h tutorial classes, for 10 consecutive weeks 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Public Health (PUBH)