Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1065 Diversity, Language and Culture (Block) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500074 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description The purpose of this subject is to equip students with skills to understand and navigate a culturally and linguistically diverse society, including that of Greater Western Sydney. Students will gain an historically informed, critical understanding of the meaning of culture, the impact of colonisation, Indigenous Australian cultures, and of approaches to diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. They will explore the value of their existing and emerging skills in bilingualism and cross-cultural communication as tools to navigate a rapidly changing global environment. Students will practice their intercultural communication skills in a team setting through a field trip to a Western Sydney community. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1009 - Contemporary Society HUMN 1011 - Contemporary Society HUMN 1053 - Diversity Language and Culture HUMN 1056 - Diversity Language and Culture (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7181 - Undergraduate Certificate in Early Childhood Studies or 7188 Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice Learning Outcomes 1. Explain key concepts in the analysis of diversity, language and culture.  
2. Develop communicative competence in a range of intercultural settings.  
3. Identify and explain the role of cultural diversity, bilingualism and multilingualism in becoming responsible local and global citizens.  
4. Engage critically with media and visual culture to ground their theoretical understanding.  
5. Achieve academic literacy by locating and assessing sources and expounding an argument in written and verbal forms.  
6. Critically reflect upon experiences of intercultural communication and community engagement.  
7. Work effectively in teams. Subject Content 1. Histories, concepts and policies of cultural diversity.  
2. Cultures of Indigenous Australian peoples.  
3. Bilingualism and multilingualism.  
4. Language as a human endowment.  
5. Language typology and language learning.  
6. Concepts of social harmony and social protest.  
7. Race and colonialism in Australia.  
8. Arts and visual culture in contemporary Australia.  
9. Advocating for alternative futures.  
10. Field trip including in-class preparation: engaging in cultural and intercultural experiences. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 900 words 30 N Individual N  Report 1200 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 600 words 15 N Individual N  Simulation 5 minutes 20 N Group N Autumn Block 4 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 words 15 N Individual N  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task Part A 600 words 15 N Individual N  Professional Task 5 minutes 30 N Group N Spring Block 4 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 words 15 N Individual N  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task Part A 600 words 15 N Individual N  Professional Task 5 minutes 30 N Group N Teaching Periods Autumn Block 4 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 4 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Undergraduate Certificate in Early Childhood Studies (7181)