Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7083 People, Place and Pedagogy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102106 Coordinator Tessa Mcgavock Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject will provide students with the opportunity to explore key concepts of learning and teaching in the curriculum areas of social studies, history, geography, place studies, civics and citizenship, economics, sustainability and environmental education and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies in early childhood and primary education. The subject will encourage pre-service educators to develop their philosophy and practice of teaching and learning, particularly within the contexts of a rapidly changing and dynamic human global culture that has significant cultural, historical, social and environmental dimensions. The subject will cover a broad, complex and engaging field of study reflecting that people are social beings who interact with one another and with the natural and social environments through and over time. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander perspectives, socio-cultural influences and place-based pedagogies will be investigated, and relevant policy and regulation documents around risk, play and pedagogy will be examined. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years) or 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the central concepts, modes of enquiry and a range of strategies for teaching history, geography, civics and citizenship, economics and business, social and environment education and their relevance for early childhood and primary school settings.
Investigate and develop critical skills of inquiry, advocacy and leadership around local and global policies that respect and value people and their cultural identity (especially children and marginal groups within society) their rights and responsibilities and the importance of sustainability and the future planet.
Design curriculum and assessment, engaging and embedding it within family and community contexts and drawing on theories of place and place pedagogies, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and contemporary perspectives on culture, diversity and inclusion.
Reflect critically on theory and practice across the key fields of study and consider ways to incorporate theoretical frameworks to inform their professional identity and philosophies and how they come to understand their own place in the world.
Describe the critical role of research in developing their own professional knowledge and the knowledge of their students and community.
Apply research findings and propositions around place, people and pedagogy within their educational settings. Subject Content 1. Theory and practice across the key field of study including ways to incorporate theoretical frameworks to inform personal professional philosophies and coming to understand their own place in the world
2. Knowledge of students and community and application of research resulting in findings and propositions around place, people and pedagogy within their educational settings
3. Critical skills of inquiry, advocacy and leadership around local and global policies that respect and value people and their cultural identity (especially children and other marginal groups within society) their rights and responsibilities, and the importance of sustainability and the future of the planet.
4. Concepts, modes of enquiry and a range of strategies for teaching history, geography, civics and citizenship, economics and business, social and environmental education and their relevance for early childhood and primary school settings
5. Approaches and strategies for designing and implementing curriculum and assessment, engaging and embedding it within family and community contexts drawing on theories of and research in place and place pedagogies, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and contemporary perspectives on culture, diversity and inclusion. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words
 50 N Individual   Professional task 2,000 words 
 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)