Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 4002 Counselling and Consultation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101247 Coordinator Martin Daly Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the basic skills underlying professional helping, providing a foundation for further training in counselling or psychological therapy. Students explore the professional helping relationship, the counselling process, common counselling and therapeutic frameworks, and learn key counselling micro-skills. There is a strong focus on applied skill development through in-class skills practice and assessment. Professional ethics and responsiveness to client characteristics including age, gender and cultural background are also emphasised. The subject provides structured opportunities to reflect on personal and professional development and readiness for further training in professional helping. School Psychology Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0475 - Counselling and Collaborative Consultation 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs: 1796 Graduate Diploma in Psychology, 1860 Bachelor of Psychological Studies (Honours), 1905 Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours), 1504 Bachelor of Arts (Psychology) Honours, 1500 Bachelor of Psychology students who have successfully completed 240 credit points including the 160 credit point core sequence in Psychology, 1834 Bachelor of Psychology/1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) students who have successfully completed 240 credit points including the 120 credit point core sequence in Psychology and the 40 credit point Psychology Extension minor prior to 2022 or for students who commenced 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) from 2022, students must have successfully completed 240 credit points including the 140 credit point core sequence in Psychology. All students must have met the minimum requirements for entry into fourth year of the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council (2010; Section 4.1.1): The entry requirement for a fourth year program is previous successful completion within the last 10 years, of an accredited three year sequence in psychology or the first three years of an integrated accredited four year program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a working knowledge of the nature of the professional helping relationship, including the role of empathy and active listening
Build and maintain rapport in a simulated professional helping relationship
Demonstrate, apply and evaluate appropriate interpersonal communication and interview skills relevant to psychological practice, including active listening skills, clarifying and reflecting, paraphrasing and summarising, questioning, empathic responding, motivational interviewing, normalising, reframing, and challenging
Explain the basic components of common counselling and psychological therapy frameworks, and their application across different client types and presenting problems
Demonstrate a working knowledge of key ethical, professional and interprofessional considerations
Explain the principles of cultural responsiveness in professional helping
Apply self-reflection to evaluate professional strengths and limitations, fitness for practice, and avenues for professional development. Subject Content 1. The nature of the professional helping relationship.
2. Developing and maintaining rapport.
3. The counselling process.
4. Basic counselling micro-skills, including verbal and non-verbal active listening skills, clarifying and reflecting, paraphrasing and summarising, questioning, empathic responding, motivational interviewing, normalising, reframing, and challenging.
5. Cultural and minority group sensitivity and responsiveness.
6. Introduction to ethical frameworks and responsibilities in psychological therapy.
7. Introduction to risk management.
8. Overview of intervention strategies in counselling and psychological therapy.
9. Adaptation of basic skills to varied professional helping contexts and formats.
10. Challenges and rewards as a professional helper.
11. Readiness for a career in professional helping. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Simulation 5-7 minute video and 1,000 word written 50 N Individual Y  Reflection 6 x 250 words of reflection/short answer questions 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 6 x 15-question quizzes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Martin Daly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Martin Daly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Martin Daly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours) (1905) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Graduate Diploma in Psychology (1796) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)