Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3039 Science Research Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300924 Coordinator Bill Price Opens in new window Description Science Research Project is a final-year capstone subject that gives students an introduction to scientific research, while extending their knowledge and practical skills. Each student undertakes a research project supervised by an academic staff member. With the assistance of their supervisor, students will research the literature and define the problem to be studied, carry out a risk assessment, develop the appropriate experimental methods, carry out research on their project, and present a final written report and a poster or oral presentation. This subject offers a challenge to final-year students, and allows innovation by the student with respect to both method and research direction. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6252 - Science Research Project Incompatible Subjects LGYA 6201 - Science Research Project 2 LGYA 5927 - Chemistry Project 3 LGYB 9720 - Biological Science Project 3 LGYA 3545 - Chemistry Project LGYA 6140 - Biomolecular Science Project Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points.  Students must have successfully completed at least two Level 3 subjects and have a GPA of 5.5 or above. This is an undergraduate project unit; the restrictions above are purposely designed to limit enrolments to a small number of high-performing third year students. Handling large enrolments is not possible in this style of subject. Assumed Knowledge This subject is aimed at undergraduates in their final year of undergraduate study who have a good grounding in the Level 2 subjects for the discipline area of their individual project. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: access and review research literature relevant to their project area
develop research aims and design experiments to test these aims
prepare a risk assessment in the approved UWS format
conduct experimental and/or computational work and analyse the data
communicate the research results orally and in writing Subject Content 1. Identification of project
2. Literature search and review
3. Development of research aims
4. Preparation of a risk assessment in the appropriate format
5. Experimental and/or computational work
6. Preparation of a research report
7. Presentation of a poster Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task WSU format S/U Y Individual N  Literature Review 2-3 pages 10 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words 65 N Individual N  Poster Poster - 10 minutes 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)