Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3027 Laboratory Quality Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300883 Coordinator Sadegh Niaziesfyani Opens in new window Description This capstone subject is directed towards the accreditation of a laboratory for chemical, microbiological or forensic testing, using the standards that are applicable in industry. The subject focuses upon the importance and coordination of good laboratory management, teamwork, calibration, record keeping and laboratory manuals. Groups of students are required to develop, establish and operate a comprehensive Laboratory Quality Management system designed for a specific class of chemical, microbiological or forensic test. The students' technical competence and quality system are then assessed using the guidelines laid down by the National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA). School Science Discipline Laboratory Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 3029 - Laboratory Quality Management Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge A demonstrated understanding of and competence with laboratory techniques in analytical chemistry or microbiology, corresponding to successful completion of a Level 2 Microbiology or Analytical Chemistry subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the nature and importance of a Laboratory Quality Management System, and the operation of ISO/IEC 17025.
Design and follow a laboratory quality management system for the accomplishment of a specific chemical, forensic or microbiological test.
Develop quality-management documentation, including sections of a Laboratory Quality Manual, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17025, including policies and procedures.
Solve operational problems in a laboratory context.
Explain the importance of method validation, calibration procedures, traceability of results, Quality Assurance and Quality Control.
Develop appropriate technical skills for working in an accredited chemical, forensic or microbiological testing laboratory.
Work constructively within a team.
Learn independently, without direct supervision by academic staff.
Report on the experience of being assessed by an external accreditation body (NATA).
Handle chemical substances and/or micro-organisms safely, and critically evaluate the risks associated with laboratory work, in the context of Work, Health and Safety practices and legislation. Subject Content 1. Designing and working within a well-defined organisational structure;
2. Developing, establishing and operating a laboratory quality management system designed for a specific class of chemical, microbiological or forensic test;
3. Preparing a Laboratory Quality Manual in accordance with ISO/IEC 17025 and the relevant Field Application Documents from the National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA);
4. Understanding and following NATA laboratory accreditation guidelines. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1000-1500 words 10 N Individual Y  Applied Project Monitored throughout the semester 30 N Group/Individual Y  Viva Voce 30 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Peer Review 2 pages 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Michael Phillips Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)