Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 2003 Bugs and Drugs Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400621 Coordinator Lisa Wyatt Opens in new window Description Throughout history humans have sought to control their well-being whether it be in response to disease-producing microbes or situations inherent in modern day life.  This subject examines an eclectic range of treatments and technologies.  Some have been triggered by ancient and enduring infectious foes such as smallpox and the plague or emerging menaces including Ebola and SARS.  Others are nested within contemporary living and may be constructed as communicable in the social sense.  Selected issues will be explored including agents utilised in the alteration of sensory perception including hallucinogens as well as reaction to and manipulation of body image. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Epidemiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of structure and function of systems within the human body. Learning Outcomes illustrate how ancient ideas of disease contributed to the spread of infectious agents,
outline the implications of the germ theory of disease,
explain how technologic and immunologic advances affected available therapeutic options,
describe how changes to treatment modalities influenced the control of infectious disorders,
discuss the aetiology, transmission and therapeutics of emerging communicable diseases,
relate the concept of communicability to selected drug taking behaviours within a social context,
explain the dynamics and potential consequences of selected compounds used to alter sensory perceptions,
articulate the physiological implications of nominated drugs used inappropriately to redefine body image,
predict the potential effects of poly-drug combinations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 - 40 MCQ 50 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour/50 MCQ's 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Lisa Wyatt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)