Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3028 Fostering Positive Behaviour in the Early Years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102682 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Description Educators have a key responsibility for guiding and facilitating young children’s positive behaviours, their sense of belonging, and wellbeing. This subject provides students with an opportunity to analyse a range of theoretical approaches and various developmental and socio-cultural contextual factors that influence children’s behaviours, learning and social interactions. Specifically, students will develop knowledge about diverse approaches to guiding children positively in partnership with families that are responsive to the children’s needs, family’s aspirations and expectations. Students will apply the legislative and ethical protocols in designing a guidance plan to support the development of positive behaviours and socio-emotional wellbeing in an early childhood setting. Students will also critically evaluate their personal and professional dispositions relating to guiding young children’s positive learning and behaviours. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) - Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 120 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Analyse theoretical approaches and socio-cultural factors associated with children’s learning, development, and behaviours. 
Explore strategies for accommodating diversity in children’s characteristics, learning and behavioural styles in relation to their social interactions. 
Explain the importance of mental health and sense of wellbeing for children’s overall development and learning. 
Critique the importance of children’s understandings of themselves and others and their capacity for agency and self-regulation
Examine guidance strategies and techniques for promoting children’s positive learning and wellbeing in partnerships with families and other professionals. 
Evaluate the impact of environmental factors on individual and group behaviour in educational settings and organise learning environments in ways that promote positive behaviours. 
Apply knowledge of theories and guidance policies to plan, implement and evaluate a selected guidance approach to promote children’s positive behaviours. 
Reflect on personal dispositions and professional approaches in relation to learning and teaching, with a particular emphasis on monitoring and guiding children’s behaviour. Subject Content Traditional and contemporary approaches to guiding children’s behaviour, social-emotional development and social interactions
Theories of developmental, contextual, ecological factors that influence children’s behaviour and learning
Educators’, families’, and communities’ beliefs, values and attitudes about children’s behaviours
Partnering with educators, families and other professionals to support children’s prosocial behaviour, social-emotional health and well-being
Methods of documenting and analysing behaviour, interactions and social-emotional development
Approaches to understanding and responding to children’s challenging behaviour 
Planning positive learning environments that promote responsive interactions and relationships with children
Planning, implementing and monitoring prevention and intervention strategies with consideration of legislative, policy and philosophical frameworks Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presnetation 5 minutes  20 N Individual   Case Study 1,200 words 30 N Individual   Essay 1,600 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)