Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7011 Cultural Diplomacy and Soft Power Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102543 Coordinator Di Dickenson Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to key topics and debates in diplomacy and international relations.  Relationships with other governments depend on diplomacy, which has been defined as the art of persuasion.  Diplomatic modes, including those based on universalist values and those based on pragmatic self-interest will be considered and tested in the context of contemporary bilateral, regional and multilateral relations. The concepts of soft power and international public relations will be considered in the light of current cultural diplomacy campaigns, and tested through simulated role-play. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Anthropology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the theories of soft power and cultural diplomacy and describe examples of their application
Discuss the history and main trends in public and cultural diplomacy worldwide
Describe and analyse examples of Australian and Chinese cultural diplomacy
Develop solutions to real-life cases involving the application of cultural diplomacy Subject Content Theories of cultural diplomacy.
History of cultural diplomacy and international cultural organisations.
Australia?fs cultural diplomacy.
China?fs cultural diplomacy.
Case studies developed through role play. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation: Presentation on personal investigation of a current issue. It involves (a) 500 word overview of the presentation and (b) Presentation (10 minutes per student) Part (a) 500 words; Part (b) 10 minutes per student 15% N Individual   Research Essay: It involves: (a) 2 x 500 word blogs while preparing essay (10%) and (b) Essay 2,500 words (30%) Part (a) 2 x 500 words; Part (b) 2,500 words
  40% N Individual   Case Study: Team inquiry task on case-study problem. It involves (a) Group presentation (30%) (b) Individual diary (15%) Part (a) 20 minutes; Part (b) 1,000 words 45% N Both (Individual & Group) Structures that include subject Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)