Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7150 Universal Design for Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102150 Coordinator Annette Sartor Opens in new window Description Developing the ability to meet the needs of a diverse group of learners within a flexible learning situation is critical to promote inclusion. This subject reviews multiple approaches and strategies employed (e.g. accommodation, adjustment, differentiation) and advocates for Universal Design for Learning to achieve this goal. Strategies are critiqued based on their capacity to enhance learning outcomes for individuals with additional needs and to advance inclusion. These analyses are then used to develop strategies and methods which can facilitate the learning and inclusion of individuals with a range of abilities, skills and needs. Students evaluate strategies, plan and reflect on a learning experience based on Universal Design for Learning. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Special Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must successfully complete TEAC 3013 before enrolling in this subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary), 1720 Master of Inclusive Education,1721 Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education, 1911 Master of Education,
1847 Master of Education (STEM); 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary). Students in program 1939 Bachelor of Education (Secondary) or 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) must have successfully completed 240cps before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of UDL to promote authentic learning for diverse learners.
Assess the effect of diversity within the educational setting for learning and teaching.
Implement practices that facilitate continuities between systems and settings.
Design programs that foster positive relationships between individuals with additional needs and their peers.
Establish effective, collaborative relationships with families, colleagues, and other professionals to optimise the planning, implementation and monitoring of learning experiences.
Document the learner’s strengths and needs, and how these will be addressed within the educational setting.
Evaluate the effect of UDL on learner’s development  and belonging.
Reflect on personal and professional values, practices and skills to implement UDL. Subject Content Fundamental concepts of inclusive education
Universal Design for Learning (UDL) - origins and definition
UDL principles and strategies
Learner variability, inclusion and belonging
Identifying and documenting the learner's strengths, needs and progress
UDL curriculum design
Universal Design Assessment
UDL in online contexts
Critical self-awareness for effective implementation of UDL
Planning for transitions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 2500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Annette Sartor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education (1721) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Inclusive Education, Minor (0359) Master of Education (1911) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)