Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7015 Qualitative Research Methodology in Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401238 Coordinator Tony Rossi Opens in new window Description This subject prepares students to conduct qualitative research. The subject covers ontologies, epistemologies, methodologies, and research methods, particularly those that involve the collection, management and analysis of qualitative data, and how findings are communicated. It also addresses the ethics of research. School Health Sciences Discipline Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise qualitative research projects and literature
Design quality research projects, connecting ontology, epistemology, methodology, and research methods
Judiciously select appropriate methodologies and methods to conduct research
Examine qualitative research proposals for their methodological quality and ethical sensitivities Subject Content 1. Introduction to qualitative research
2. Ontology, epistemology, methodology, and qualitative research methods
3. Research design
4. Quality and ethical qualitative research
5. The use of qualitative research methods and communicating the associated findings for different audiences Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 30 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts No prescribed text Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tony Rossi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tony Rossi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Public Health (4702) Master of Science (3749) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Other Health (HLTH)