Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7113 Leading for Social Impact Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tendai Chikweche Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an opportunity to explore the rising importance of leaders' impact on improving social outcomes through strategic decisions affecting various stakeholders. Specifically, this subject examines the social economy and social impact, models of leadership that can be used to maximise social impact, trends and drivers redefining the complexities of social impact, and strategies leaders can use to intervene more effectively to achieve social outcomes. Students will acquire critical leadership capabilities that equip them with knowledge and practical skills to achieve outcomes that enhance inclusive, responsible and equitable practices. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7051 Restrictions Students must be in a postgraduate program to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically discuss the contexts, complexities, and opportunities of leading for social outcomes in the for-profit, not-for-profit, and government sectors.
Apply advanced knowledge of social economy concepts and theories and their influence on responsible leadership practices.
Critically evaluate and apply relevant ethical and responsible social impact strategies that maximise positive organisational social outcomes.
Engage in leadership practice that respects and values Indigenous Australian peoples and communities, and their ways of knowing, being and doing. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 equivalent 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1500 words equivalent 35 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2000 words equivalent and 15 minute presentation 35 N Group N Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Business Administration (2761)