Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7022 Practice of Obstetric and Gynecological (O&G) Sonography 4 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Catherine Robinson Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will polish their image acquisition, optimisation and measurement skills and learn to perform extended O&G examinations. They will learn to differentiate normal from abnormal anatomical and physiological features by appraising acquired images of fetal anomalies and female pelvic pathologies. Students will strengthen their professional communication skills and ethical attributes by exploring methods for dissemination information and providing high quality patient care. They will reflect on personal sonography practice to enhance clinical skills and plan for further professional development. The subject, which includes a work-integrated learning component, will confirm their professional skills, knowledge and attributes. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7021 - Practice of OG Sonography 3 Co-requisite(s) RADI 7023 - Applied OG Sonography Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 4802 Graduate Diploma in Obstetric and Gynecological Sonography. Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy, physiology and mathematics. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Acquire high quality obstetric images to aid diagnosis of fetal anomalies and genetic disorders
2. Perform extended obstetric measurements for determining fetal wellbeing and growth patterns to support clinical decision making
3. Appraise acquired clinical images demonstrating pathologies of the female pelvis
4. Develop tailored reports to convey the significance of individualised O&G images and examination findings
5. Evaluate quality control processes essential for the ethical practice of O&G sonography
6. Consolidate evidence of acquired knowledge, skills and attributes to support continuing professional advancement Subject Content Module 1: Professional and Ethical Practice 4
1. Legal requirements for report writing and dissemination of information
2. Quality control processes for sonographers
3. Continuing professional development
Module 2: Specialty Knowledge and Imaging Skills 4A (Obstetrics) 
1. Anomalies of the fetal brain
2. Anomalies of the fetal spine and limbs
3. Anomalies of the fetal face and neck
4. Congenital heart disease
5. Anomalies of the fetal thorax
6. Anomalies of the fetal abdomen and genitourinary tract
7. Fetal growth restriction
8. Disorders of multifetal pregnancies
Module 3: Specialty Knowledge and Imaging Skills 4B (Gynecology)
1. Endometriosis Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the O&G ultrasonography course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in states other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be competed if, and when required). Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2 case studies with a 1500-word report 20 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y  Portfolio 600 studies with quality and reflective learning activities S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Radiography (RADI)