Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3020 Applied Research Project Credit Points 10 Coordinator Andrew Grainger Opens in new window Description This capstone subject requires students to design and conduct a detailed project of independent inquiry in an area of interest. In consultation with subject coordinators and academic staff, students will build on existing evidence synthesis skills by collecting data in a variety of formats to answer key questions related to their field, leading to outcomes and solutions relevant to real-world settings and future employment contexts. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 3011 Sport Development Applied Project Incompatible Subjects SPRT 3014 Sport Management Applied Project
200664 Sport Management Internship Restrictions Must have completed 160 Credit Points. Assumed Knowledge A developed level of knowledge in Sport, Health and Physical Education. Learning Outcomes Analyse known, reported or understood elements of professional practice in a relevant field to identify potential gaps in knowledge, skills or behaviours in that field 
Pose critical and relevant research questions and design a research project able to address those questions.
Gather, manage, organise, and critically analyse data to address critical questions
Suggest solutions and formulate recommendations that have application to the real-world settings.
Work collaboratively and communicate effectively in visual, oral, and written formats Subject Content Asking the right questions, designing a project, and ethical considerations
Sourcing evidence and synthesising ideas
Qualitative and quantitative research methods
Reporting on findings via creative and diverse media
Translation to professional practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Requirements will vary between hosting organisations and may include a Working with Children Check, Child Protection Course, Criminal Record Check or First Aid Certificate. Specific requirements will be identified and confirmed with students prior to the commencement of the subject. Enrolment and working with industry partners will not proceed if the student does not have the correct requirements at the time the placement is due to begin. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 750-1000 words 20 N Individual N  Presentation 5-minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 3000 words or creative piece 40 N Individual N  Reflection 1000 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Andrew Grainger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Andrew Grainger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (4792) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Secondary PDHPE Education (Further Studies), Major (0357) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)