Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3020 Representing Crime Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101005 Coordinator Sara Knox Opens in new window Description This subject deals with the evolution of the figure of the detective and of the criminal; the development of an aesthetics of crime from the later 18th Century; the dynamic nature of fiction, film and television genres of detection. Literatures of sensation, detective fictions, true crime writing and the non-fiction novel will all be examined to allow an in-depth analysis of the changing ethical and psychological character of the detective, and of his nemeses. The crime story in film, television and in other new media may also be addressed to facilitate an analysis of changing cultural contexts for the crime story. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYC 1299 - Representing Crime Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of theories of crime fiction in the context of debates about violence, modernity and popular culture;
Build analytical capacities in relation to concepts of genre, and the interdependence of different generic forms;
Identify change and continuity in discourses around crime from the later 19th to the early 21st century;
Analyse the relationship between textual forms of different media in the representation of crime and the figure of criminal and the detective. Subject Content Content may vary between semesters of offering dependent on the teaching staff expertise and interests. Content may draw from, or elaborate upon, the following pool of topics: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Weekly Quiz 4 questions - 15 minutes 20 N Individual N  Workshop Exercise One page 15 N Group N  Media Performance 5 minutes 15 N Group N  Written Assignment 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)