Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 3019 Thought and Action in Greece and Rome Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102908 Coordinator Dimitris Vardoulakis Opens in new window Description The end of the Peloponnesian War marks the end of the classical period in the history of Ancient Greece. The rise of the Macedonian Empire and then of the Roman Republic prompted the ancients to reflect on their social and political existence. In this subject you will examine how the schools of thought from the Hellenistic period onwards influenced the history, politics and culture of the period. The competing conceptions of thought and action had a profound influence in the history of the political events, economic arrangements, and technological progress of the period. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points in the currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Review the key schools of thought in antiquity
Evaluate the different conceptions of thought and action in the major schools of antiquity
Judge how successfully conceptions of thought and action are integrated in the major schools of antiquity
Assess the impact of these conceptions of thought and action on the politics, culture and the economy of the Hellenistic, the Republican and the Early Imperial era. Subject Content The four major Hellenistic schools of thought: the Academy, the Lyceum, the Garden, the Stoa
The influence of the four major schools on the Roman Republic and Early Imperial period Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 3 x 400 words

 30 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 3 x 400 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Dimitris Vardoulakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dimitris Vardoulakis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Ancient History, Minor (0262) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028) Secondary Ancient History Education, Major (0352)