Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7071 Literacy Connections 1: Understanding and Creating Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101803 Coordinator Janene Rox Opens in new window Description In this subject, students investigate processes of speaking, listening, reading, writing, viewing, representing and critical thinking. The subject focuses on teaching children from birth to 8 years, with a focus on strategies that support emergent literacy. Strategies to support children with English as an additional language or dialect will be explored. Students will learn how to support children’s effective communication and teach children in the early stages of reading and writing. The key literacy elements of oral language, concepts of print, phonological and phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary and comprehension will be addressed. It also focuses on the role of the teacher in assessing children’s language and literacy learning, and planning intentional learning experiences to extend learning. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) - Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1112 - Literacy 0-8 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a sound knowledge of language development from birth, with consideration of cultural, developmental and linguistic differences and the role of oral language as a foundation of reading and writing.  
Explain the processes of speaking, listening, reading, writing and representing and the role of the teacher and the family in extending children’s language and literacy learning. 
Demonstrate a sound understanding of Aboriginal English and plurilingualism first and second language learning and effective strategies for supporting children who are learning English as an additional language or dialect. 
Explain the key processes and related pedagogies in learning to read in the early years, including oral language, concepts of print, phonological and phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary, comprehension and wide reading.  
Use formative and summative assessment procedures to assess children’s language and literacy using relevant curriculum and syllabus documents to set appropriate learning goals.  
Plan culturally responsive learning experiences that utilise a range of paper-based and digital resources and everyday texts to extend children’s literacy learning. 
Use authentic children’s literature as a tool for enhancing children’s literacy learning, meaning making and critical thinking. Subject Content Language development and the role of oral language as a foundation for literacy learning and the role of family and community experiences.


Processes of speaking, listening, reading, viewing, representing and creative and critical thinking.


Plurilingualism teaching strategies to support additional language learning.


Aboriginal English and strategies to support children learning Standard Australian English as an additional dialect.


Teaching beginning readers and writers including concepts of print, phonological and phonemic awareness, fluency, vocabulary, comprehension and wide reading.


Effective pedagogical practices, such as modelled, guided, and independent reading and writing   


Assessment of children's language and literacy learning including evidence-based approaches, assessment tools and how it informs the planning cycle.


Planning, monitoring and evaluating integrated and scaffolded literacy experiences and lessons.


Literary and factual texts – selecting and sharing authentic culturally responsive texts. Language development and the role of oral language as a foundation for literacy learning and the role of family and community experiences. Processes of speaking, listening, reading, viewing, representing and creative and critical thinking. Plurilingualism teaching strategies to support additional language learning. Aboriginal English and strategies to support children learning Standard Australian English as an additional dialect. Teaching beginning readers and writers including concepts of print, phonological and phonemic awareness, fluency, vocabulary, comprehension and wide reading. Effective pedagogical practices, such as modelled, guided, and independent reading and writing Assessment of children's language and literacy learning including evidence-based approaches, assessment tools and how it informs the planning cycle. Planning, monitoring and evaluating integrated and scaffolded literacy experiences and lessons. Literary and factual texts – selecting and sharing authentic culturally responsive texts. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes in class 10 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words  40 N Individual Y  Case Study 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Janene Rox Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)