Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 3013 Fields and Equations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301377 Coordinator James East Opens in new window Description This subject develops abstract algebraic thought to a higher level. The abstract concepts introduced in the subject, ring theory, field theory and algebraic equations, have many applications in science and technology. The theory of algebraic equations is the study of solutions of polynomial equations. Although the problem originates in explicit manipulations of polynomials, the modern (and far more powerful) treatment is in terms of field extensions. The subject is an introduction to ring theory and field theory; it includes applications to cryptography (RSA) and geometry (proving that it is impossible to trisect an arbitrary angle using only a straightedge and compass). School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 3015 Assumed Knowledge Basic notions in algebra, such as equivalence relations, groups, homomorphisms and isomorphisms. Learning Outcomes Apply fundamental structures in abstract algebra and number theory: rings, integral domains, and fields.
Examine practical applications, such as RSA cryptography, based on abstract concepts from ring theory and number theory.
Formulate proofs involving rings, integral domains, and fields.
Communicate mathematical arguments effectively in both spoken and written format. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Quiz 20 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Essay 3-6 pages 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact James East Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact James East Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact James East Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Mathematics (3778) Mathematics (MATH) Mathematics, Major (0059) Mathematics, Minor (0059) Secondary Mathematics Education, Major (0350)