Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3002 Advanced Medicinal Chemistry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300891 Coordinator Christopher Gordon Opens in new window Description Medicinal Chemistry is an interdisciplinary science that exists at the intersection of chemistry, pharmacology, physiology and human health. Students will explore the multidisciplinary nature and interconnectedness of medicinal chemistry through in-depth study of topics that relate medicinal chemistry to disciplines such as physiology, natural product science, biochemistry and pharmacology. It will also explore the expectations of a professional medicinal chemist. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CHEM 1005 Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points at Level 2 or 3 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Research and review information including scientific literature on a selected topic in medicinal chemistry
Teach a selected topic of medicinal chemistry to peers in a short oral presentation (group)
Review and explain a selected topic in medicinal chemistry in a written essay (individual)
Explore the professional competencies relevant to a final year medicinal chemistry student
Discuss selected areas in medicinal chemistry presented by peers during the oral presentations
Evaluate the essays of your peers on selected topics in medicinal chemistry Subject Content 1.Introduction to advanced medicinal chemistry, drugs and drug targets
2.Enzymes, receptors and nucleic acids as drug targets
3.Drug discovery, design, and development ? Finding a lead and optimising target interactions
4.Elucidating drug-target interactions
5.Selected topics in medicinal chemistry - Antibacterial agents
6.Selected topics in medicinal chemistry - Antiviral agents
7.Selected topics in medicinal chemistry - Anticancer agents Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes (10 questions) 10 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours 10 N Individual Y  Presentation Approx. 20 minutes (group of 3) 15 N Group Y  Essay Approx. 1,500 words 15 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)