Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 7004 ICT Practicum Credit Points 0 Legacy Code 301047 Coordinator Rhys Tague Opens in new window School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) For students enrolled in 3698 Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) or 3699 Master of Information and Communications Technology - ENGR 7017 Professional Practice in Communication
For students enrolled in 3765 Master of Artificial Intelligence - COMP 7020 Artificial Intelligence Ethics and Organisations Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3698 Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced), 3699 Master of Information and Communications Technology or 3765 Master of Artificial Intelligence. Assumed Knowledge A broad background knowledge in ICT discipline (i.e. equivalent to that obtained after completing two-three years of ICT/Computing). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Relate academic course material to workplace conditions
Develop experience in various aspects of ICT industry such as planning, organising and managing ICT projects as well as adapting to workplace culture in Australia or globally)
Develop appropriate workplace skills, work habits and professional attitudes by working with professionals
Communicate effectively in a variety of forms to diverse audiences
Work in a team environment Subject Content A 120 hrs full time or part-time equivalent of industrial training in the ICT industry performing following tasks:
1. Find details of assigned workplace including relevant work practices and procedures
2. Follow relevant work practices and procedures
3. Perform appropriate workplace tasks as directed
4. Seek feedback on assigned tasks from appropriate person
5. Document evidence of activities carried as required Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation A daily kept diary with the employer’s evaluation at the end of each week S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook A 2-3 pages report detailing the tasks and responsibilities undertaken by the student S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance A standard form (approx. 1 page) is provided for Employer to fill in and submit to the subject coordinator as a confidential report. S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Online Subject Contact Simi Kamini Bajaj Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Melbourne Online Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Online Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)