Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7010 Integrating Arts and Therapy Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102527 Coordinator Joy Paton Opens in new window Description This subject introduces art therapy students to an understanding of art psychotherapy theory through the lens of contemporary art and the translation of foundational psychotherapy knowledge and skills into art therapy practice. This subject builds on the micro skills of counselling and psychotherapy learned in Counselling Skills for the Allied Professions, through the scaffolded introduction and practice of art therapy clinical skills during intensive group work supported by staff. The subject also offers an opportunity for students to demonstrate their emerging understandings of art therapy by producing and exhibiting an artwork on a chosen aspect of the relationship between art and psychotherapy. School Social Sciences Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) CART 7005 AND
WELF 7032 AND
WELF 7029 Equivalent Subjects WELF 7005 - Counselling 2 Incompatible Subjects WELF 7010 - Foundations of Psychotherapy and Counselling 2 CART 7011 - Integrating Arts and Therapy Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4595 Master of Art Therapy. Assumed Knowledge Concurrent or previous study of foundational subjects in counselling and art therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Practice beginning skills in art therapy effectively with a range of client groups and issues.
Demonstrate art therapy skills in practice sessions in ways that will enhance the therapeutic relationship and the progress of therapy
Reflect constructively on their art therapy practice from multiple positions
Analyse significant critical connections between the theoretical frameworks of contemporary art and art psychotherapy
Analyse the significance of studio art practice for the practicing art therapist
Curate own or client artwork around a therapeutic issue or theme Subject Content 1. In-class practice of art therapy clinical skills to address a range of client issues.
2. Reflection on the experience of art therapy practice from the positions of trainee practitioner, participant and observer, including close analysis of video recordings of practice sessions.
3. Exploration of the connections and tensions between the theories and practices of art psychotherapy and those of contemporary art.
4. Planning, documenting progress toward and exhibiting an artwork that researches an aspect of the relationship between art and psychotherapy.
5. Critical consideration of the role of the exhibition in art therapy, including the intersections of art therapy with arts-based mental health recovery and the ?earts in health?f movement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 50 minute video  recording plus 2,000 words (not including transcript) 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 1,000 words plus 8 digital images 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 500 words + ongoing 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Joy Paton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Art Therapy (exit only) (4596) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Other Creative Arts (CART)