Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7007 Information Security Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301162 Coordinator Yun Bai Opens in new window Description Cyber Crime costs are increasing at an alarming speed. Security management and ICT project management skills are now essential for IT industry. This unit provides the knowledge, skills, techniques and mechanisms on information security management as well as general ICT project management for postgraduate students. It covers topics on management aspect of information security such as business and Cybercrime, security awareness, security risks, security fundamentals, risk assessment and security system design, planning and regulatory issues for information system security. It also covers general ICT project management phases such as conception and initiation, project planning, project execution, performance and monitoring, and project close. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of computer system, computer security and basic programming skills. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the impact of global interconnectedness on contemporary businesses, identifying potential vulnerabilities and threats stemming from cybercrimes.
Evaluate the application of fundamental project management principles and their challenges in the context of information security management.
Develop comprehensive strategies for effective project planning, including budgeting and scheduling, tailored to the unique demands of information security projects.
Explain the foundational concepts and the significance of information security, promoting best practices within an organisational context.
Assess security vulnerabilities across various stages of project management, devising measures and strategies to mitigate risks and ensure a secure project lifecycle.
Design security mechanisms to safeguard information assets and systems, including project management aspects. Subject Content 1.  Globalisation, business and cybercrimes 
2.  Project management basics and challenges 
3.  Project planning, budget and schedule
4.  Information security basics and awareness
5.  Security issues in various phases of project management 
6.  Security risks 
7.  Security mechanisms 
8.  Project risk assessment
9.  Managing risk 
10. Project execution, performance and monitoring
11.  Security architecture 
12.  Security system design 
13.  Planning and regulatory issues for security Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 5-10 page report  (per case study) 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y  Applied Project 15 pages report + 15 minutes group presentation 40 N Group Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Yun Bai Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Yun Bai Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Cybersecurity, Testamur Major (T003) Graduate Certificate in Information Governance (3774) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Governance, Testamur Major (T122) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)