Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 3003 Visitor Economy Professional Placement Credit Points 20 Coordinator Garth Lean Opens in new window Description The Visitor Economy Professional Placement subject provides students with an opportunity to complete a work placement in the tourism, events, hospitality, visitor economy and/or visitor experience sectors. Students work in a voluntary capacity with an industry host to develop work-ready knowledge, skills and networks. The subject has a strong focus on professional development, with students learning how to apply for professional roles (including developing resumes, expressions of interest and conducting interviews), and develop online profiles, networks, and career goals and plans. On completion of the subject, students will be well placed to apply for positions in the visitor and experience economies. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3072 - Tourism Industry Professional Placement Restrictions To enrol in this subject, students must have completed at least 160 credit points and be enrolled in one of the following programs or specialisations: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Articulate knowledge and skills, and utilise networks, to apply for professional roles in the tourism, hospitality, events, visitor economy and/or visitor experience sectors.
2. Work effectively in team environments. 
3. Design and manage a program of professional development. 
4. Self-evaluate and report professional development.
5. Develop and articulate a career plan. Subject Content 1. Applying for professional roles, including: developing resumes, writing expressions of interest and conducting interviews.
2. Professional development, including: professional workplace conduct and developing goals, plans, online identities and networks.
3. Acquiring visitor economy work-place knowledge and skills.
4. Self-evaluation and reporting work-based activities and performance. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1500 words 25 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes and 5 minutes questions 20 N Individual N  Report 3500 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 200 words 5 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance n/a S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Garth Lean Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Garth Lean Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Festival and Event Management, Major (0306) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Tourism (TOUR) Tourism Management, Major (0302)