Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7008 Internet of Things Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301175 Coordinator Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window Description The Internet of Things (IoT) is drastically changing the way organisations operate and how individuals interact with the world. IoT is an infrastructure consisting of fairly constantly communicating objects, or things, that may be smart and process or act on data. The IoT facilitates detailed and meaningful interactions between humans, digital devices, and many other industrial and household equipment, appliances, and things. The IoT is also the enabler of smart environments, including smart homes, buildings, cities, transport, and healthcare, among many others. This subject discusses IoT technologies and applications in detail. It also introduces the students to trends, challenges, and key research topics in relevant areas. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Students should be familiar with the fundamentals of computer networking. In particular, they should have a good understanding of the TCP/IP protocol suite, and current networking and wireless technologies. Therefore, it is strongly advisable that the students must have either taken an appropriate subject in computer networking (e.g., 300695 Network Technologies), or have equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of the IoT characteristics, trends, and architecture.
Explain communication technologies of significant importance in the IoT.
Describe the major IoT applications and demonstrate creative skills to plan their establishment or expansion.
Describe security and privacy issues in the IoT and identify their remedies.
Discuss the emerging trends in the IoT and smart environments. Subject Content Overview of the IoT and enabling technologies
IoT Architecture
Wireless sensor networks
IoT applications
Smart environments
Privacy and security of the IoT Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 minutes each 20 N Individual Y  Report Around 4000 words 20 N Group Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Group Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Networking, Testamur Major (T009) Web and Mobile Computing, Testamur Major (T010)