Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2047 Pitch: Podcasting Essentials Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102697 Coordinator Roger Dawkins Opens in new window Description This subject will teach students the fundamentals of podcasting, giving them the expertise needed to produce their own podcast feature. Working with academics and industry experts students will learn research and communication skills for finding, pitching and developing audio stories (backgrounding, writing, interviewing, presentation, critical review) and basic technical skills in sound and editing. This subject will show students how to get the most out of their software and hardware, and how to maximise their distribution channels to reach target audiences. Students will also learn how to recognise and evaluate key legal and ethical issues in research and recording content for publication. There is no need to know any of these things already, or have a story ready to tell; this subject is for all levels of experience and disciplinary backgrounds. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse and evaluate existing podcasts in order to identify key characteristics of the audio genre;
Apply research and communication skills for pitching and developing audio stories (backgrounding, writing, interviewing, presentation, reflection);
Recognise and evaluate the importance of key legal issues and the role of ethics in research and recording content for publication;
Demonstrate technical skills to record, edit and publish an audio feature;
Apply collaboration and team work skills. Subject Content This subject will be comprised of three topic areas.
Topic 1: Intro to podcasting and storytelling fundamentals
Students will learn the concepts of narrative storytelling; the components of a podcast; how to pitch story ideas; and how to write their own stories about their area(s) of interest.
Topic 2: Understanding audiences, the law and ethics
Students learn basic audience research techniques; relevant legal issues in the context of podcasting (copyright, defamation and privacy) and key ethical issues, including privacy and cultural appropriation.
Topic 3: Production
Students will learn how to record, edit and publish an audio feature, using personal recording devices and their own computers; basic voice presentation techniques; to engage in peer review of others?f work. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 60-90 seconds recorded review 20 N Individual N  Practical 60-90 seconds recorded promo 
PLUS
1000 words proposal
 30 N Individual N  Practical 5-7 minutes audio feature 40 N Individual N  Participation Weekly production exercises 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Roger Dawkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Living for Cultural Wellbeing, Minor (0334) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007)