Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3064 Service Industry Analytics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200991 Coordinator Daniel Townsend Opens in new window Description Service Industry Analytics is designed to provide a working knowledge of how to analyse and report information required in planning and operating a services business. It explores the methods, uses and limitations of contemporary research in the sport and hospitality industries. Students will gain experience with the planning and implementation of research and assessment of service research problems, utilising the collection and analysis of both quantitative and qualitative data. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2036 - Service Industry Studies
LGYA 4814 - Sport Management Research Methods
LGYA 4799 - Hospitality Business Research Methods
LGYA 4863 - Services Research Methods
MKTG 2011 - Customer Insights Restrictions Only students enrolled in the MT2035 Hospitality Management or MT2036 Sport Management can enrol in this subject. Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of the service and experience economies is assumed. Learning Outcomes Analyse the scope and function of services research;
Evaluate the different types of information to decision making within the sport and hospitality industries;
Identify and apply the key stages involved in conducting a services research project;
Apply data analysis techniques in services management research;
Demonstrate ability to present, write, implement and evaluate proposals and report results. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 online quizzes; each of  20 minutes duration 30 N Individual Y  Proposal 1,500 words 10 N Group Y  Report 2,500 words 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045)