Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 5004 Work Health and Safety Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jonathan Adamopoulos Opens in new window Description This subject aims to provide students with advanced and integrated understanding of how the law protects workplace safety in Australia by introducing the work health and safety regulatory framework and its underlying policy and history impacts on First Nations peoples. Students will also examine issues surrounding enforcement and compliance and corporate governance in the safety context. Other topics include workers compensation and employment law. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7072 Torts Law or LAWS 7078 Principles of Private Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3072 Work Health and Safety Law Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate laws program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically evaluate the regulatory framework of work health and safety (WHS) and the effectiveness of WHS regulation in Australia from different employers' and employees' perspectives, including First Nations peoples.
Distinguish between the various means in which the law ensures workplace safety, the relationship between workplace safety and terms of employment.
Analyse the duties of employers, employees, directors and managers, the availability of defences in the event of a breach, consequences of contravening WHS duties and distinguish various penalty options.
Provide legal advice to clients on WHS issues in a commercial context. Subject Content Contextual background and historical development of WHS law, including the specific experience of First Nations workers
Workplace safety and the common law
Workplace safety and employment law
Duties of employers to employees and other persons in the workplace
Other statutory duties under the Work Health and Safety Act 2011 (NSW)
The Commonwealth WHS scheme
Defences
Obligations under the Work Health and Safety Regulation 2011 (NSW)
Workplace consultation and codes of practice
Enforcement
Penalties and remedies
Workers' compensation and rehabilitation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2000 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 2500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Adamopoulos, J, The Law of Workplace Safety (Seminar Guide) 2024 (available online on vUWS) Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jonathan Adamopoulos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Issues in Construction Law, minor (0345) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)