Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 1023 Bioscience 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401469 Coordinator Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window Description Bioscience 1 introduces the core concepts and terminology related to the structure, function and homeostasis of the human body. Students begin to describe the relationships between the Australian National Health Priority areas and performances of activities of living and healthy lifestyle practices. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1010 - Bioscience 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing, 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online or 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced). Unitrack students may study this unit as a miscellaneous unit. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define anatomy and physiology of the human body across the lifespan
Identify appropriate terminology to biological concepts and mechanisms
Describe the physiological healthy body systems and homeostasis
Explain the impact of lifestyle practices that improve people's health literacy with relevance to nursing and midwifery practice
Analyse biological concepts of health conditions related to Australian National Health Priority areas Subject Content Anatomical terminology
Body organisation and cavities
Cell structure and function
Human genomic basics and cell cycle
Tissue types (structure, function, and location)
Principles of homeostasis
For each body system (integumentary, cardiovascular, respiratory, musculoskeletal, digestive, nervous, endocrine, reproductive and urinary) address: a. fundamentals of anatomy and physiology
b. changes across the life span
c. maintenance of homeostasis and health
d. relationship to healthy lifestyle practices
e. relationship to National Health Priorities Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Short Answer 1200 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 60 minutes 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Masoud Hassanpour Golakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Melanie Bingham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)