Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 1001 Surveying for Engineers Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300738 Coordinator Won Hee Kang Opens in new window Description This is a core subject which provides students with basic skills that are required to carry-out Surveying. After the completion of this subject, students will be able to carry-out required preliminary surveying for most of the civil and construction engineering projects. This subject will also serve as a foundation for most of the subjects that follow in the course. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Surveying Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1016 Equivalent Subjects CIVL 1002 - Surveying for Engineering CIVL 1003 - Surveying for Engineers (WSTC AssocD) Assumed Knowledge Students need a good knowledge of Geometry and Trigonometry. Learning Outcomes Explain the terminology, instruments, datum, maps and coordinate systems; operate, record and reduce observations made using current industry standard surveying equipment.
Develop contour and building site maps.
Operate, record and adjust angular observations made with current industry standard surveying equipment; use a tape to measure slope distances and to reduce linear observations to the horizontal; to adjust a combination of these angular and linear observations to provide coordinates of the traverse points used.
Estimate errors in engineering surveying and apply necessary adjustments.
Compute cross-sectional areas and volumes for channels and embankments; prepare mass-haul diagrams
Prepare diagrams and compute parameters for the setting out the centrelines of roads or railways where horizontal circular and transition curves are to be placed, or where a vertical curve is to be placed.
Describe the relationship between global positioning system (GPS), spatial information systems (SIS) and surveying
Work cooperatively in a team to complete field work, data reduction and analysis and report writing. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz N/A 10 N Individual N  Report Five reports (6% each), each report about 10 pages long 30 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours (closed book) 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Won Hee Kang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Won Hee Kang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Won Hee Kang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)