Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7026 Statutory Valuation and Property Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201016 Coordinator Sharon Yam Opens in new window Description This subject covers valuation codes laid down by statute and their application in compulsory acquisition and resumption of property. It also includes compensation valuation for compulsory acquisition, professional negligence, litigation, evidence, and alternative dispute resolution. Students will develop an understanding of professional liability and responsibility, and prepare for role as an expert witness. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MKTG 7028 AND
MKTG 7015 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of property and related laws and valuation methods related to compensation and resumption;
Evaluate the process of land acquisition or resumption, and the concepts of market value, special value to the owner, injurious affection, severance, enhancement, disturbance and a loss of goodwill;
Apply the important court decisions in compensation valuation;
Examine the role of expert witnesses or a legal representative in compensation disputes;
Apply legal precedent and valuation concepts to interpret the amount of compensation payable on a compulsory taking. Subject Content 1. Compulsory acquisition and procedures and related legal consideration, including native title
2. Heads of compensation ? market value, special value severance loss, injurious affection, disturbance and solatium
3. Compulsory acquisition ? valuation approaches
4. Compensation for easement acquisition
5. Goodwill and tax issues in compensation
6. Introduction to API practice requirements
7. Alternative dispute resolution
8. Rating Valuation
9. Professional liability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words  40 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words  60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sharon Yam Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Sharon Yam Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Property Investment and Development (2813) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)