Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2009 Mental Health and Substance Abuse Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401095 Coordinator Paul Simpson Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to mental health and behavioural presentations, and emergencies arising from legal and illegal substance use.  Students will explore the epidemiology, pathophysiology, manifestation, recognition, assessment and management of common mental health problems, behavioural presentations, and cases involving legal and illegal drug use in the context of paramedicine.  Students will practice techniques for managing these presentations from an interpersonal communication perspective and a clinical management perspective.  Acute and sub-acute presentations will be discussed, with specific attention given to the role of the paramedic regarding risk assessment, counselling, and health promotion.  Legalities associated with management of behaviourally disturbed or cognitively impaired patients will be discussed, and issues relating to multi-agency care, collaboration and co-operation will be examined. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 1009 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 2017 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the role of paramedics with regard to health promotion and injury prevention for patients with mental health, drug or alcohol related presentations
Describe techniques for undertaking mental health and behavioural assessment and management in the prehospital environment
Describe the clinical presentations associated with commonly encountered substances
Apply patient assessment and clinical skills to cases involving mental health or substance affected patients
Discuss the role of paramedics in the inter-professional care of mental health patients
Discuss the prefessional, ethical and legal considerations surrounding management of a patient with a mental health or substance affected presentation Subject Content Mental health and behavioural (MH&B)
1. Epidemiology of MH and behavioural presentations and structure of MH care systems in Australia
2. Legal, cultural and social considerations associated with MH&B presentations
3. Communication with, and assessment of, MH&B patients
4. Anxiety Disorders, Mood Disorders, Psychotic Disorders, Personality Disorders, Dementia, delirium and confusion
Drug & substance use/abuse
1. Epidemiology of alcohol and drug use in Australia
2. Assessment, diagnosis and management of acute drug or substance use
3. Alcohol intoxication and alcoholism
4. Common illicit substances
5. Prescription and non-prescription medication abuse presentations
6. Mental health and drug use ? patients with dual presentations
7. Role of paramedic in health promotion and injury prevention Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Up to 30 questions in 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Simulation 30 minutes 40 Y Individual Y  Quiz Up to 60 questions in 60 minutes 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)