Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 2001 Kinematics and Kinetics of Machines Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300035 Coordinator Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window Description Kinematics is the study of the motion of objects, and Kinetics is the study of the causes of the motion. The focus for this subject is on rigid body kinematics which involves the study of a solid body with little or no deformation in planar motion, such as those in machines. The motion of key machine components and the forces they generate gives rise to design problems. Students gain an understanding of the relevance of kinematics and kinetics in the analysis and design of mechanical systems and of methods to ensure machines operate efficiently and safely. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1016 AND
ENGR 1018 Equivalent Subjects MECH 2002 Kinematics and Kinetics of Machines (WSTC AssocD) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret the kinematic structure of mechanisms
Identify freedom and constraint in machine
Apply graphical velocity and acceleration analysis techniques to mechanisms
Predict the movement of particles, a single rigid body
Analyse translational and angular displacements, velocities and accelerations of a single rigid body
Analyse multi-body mechanisms, gear trains, and cams
Verify measurements in the real worldagainst theory presented in the lectures. Subject Content Freedom and constraints in mechanisms
Velocity and acceleration analysis of mechanisms
Particle kinematics
Particle kinetics
Rigid body kinematics
Rigid body kinetics
Mechanism kinematics
Simple and epicyclic gear trains.
Involute geometry of gear teeth
The geometry of cams. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 12 x 2 hours in class; 12x2 hours before class 5 N Group/Individual Y  Quiz 15 minutes
(per Quiz)
 20 N Individual Y  Practical 3 hours
(per Practical)
 15 N Group/Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mobarak Hossain Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)