Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3012 Introduction to Cloud Computing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301203 Coordinator Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window Description This subject provides deep understanding of fundamental cloud computing concepts and how they can be applied to build cost-effective, highly available and fault tolerant systems. Students will learn concepts including system virtualisation, virtual machines, cloud networks, basic cloud storage and cloud databases, security in clouds, and auto-scaling, load balancing and monitoring. The main content of this subject is formed around the industry-based curriculum from Amazon Web Services (AWS) Academy which can prepare students for the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner exam. Based on the performance in the subject, a selected number of students will have the opportunity to undergo a week-long placement with a target industry partner. Students doing the placement will work on industry projects assessed by professional staff at their placement venue. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 2004 OR
COMP 2005 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the concept of system virtualisation
Explain and apply basic cloud services
Describe the main factors that affect the cost of cloud services and how they can be applied to minimise total cost of ownership
Explain and apply basic concepts of security, high availability, and fault tolerance in clouds
Analyse systems that utilise basic cloud services Subject Content 1. System virtualization
2. Fundamentals of cloud computing and cloud networking
3. Basic cloud services: virtual machines, cloud storage, availability zones, auto-scaling, load balancing, and monitoring
4. Cost optimization in cloud services
5. Introduction to cloud security
6. Introduction to cloud databases
7. High availability and fault-tolerance in clouds Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 15 minutes  (per practical) 50 N Individual N  Quiz 10 minutes  (per Quiz) S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Major (0031) Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Bachelor of Data Science (3769) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Cloud Computing, Minor (0128) Computer Science (COMP) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Minor (0326) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Enterprise Systems and Architectures, Testamur Major (T151) Network Management, Testamur Major (T159) Networked Systems, Major (0065) Networking and Cloud Computing, Testamur Major (T146) Software Development, Testamur Major (T148) Ubiquitous Computing, Minor (0325)