Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3120 AI and Society Credit Points 10 Coordinator Norma Lam-Saw Opens in new window Description AI is no longer only a topic of science fiction fantasy. It now answers questions, writes essays and code, manages customer service inquiries, and generates images, music and film. Its arrival poses new and critical questions about how technology impacts society. What does the effortless production of media mean for the future of education, work, culture, and governance? Does AI hold promise for key global challenges, from climate change to geopolitical instability? Or will it lead to rising inequality, alienation and corporate control? Trained on accumulations of media on the Internet, what are its effects on forms of social difference – gender, class, race, indigeneity, sexuality, disability? Students will develop critical literacy skills through introductions to the history, technical foundations, and current debates surrounding AI. The subject will involve a practice-based generative AI project, exploring issues of bias, plagiarism, copyright, ethics, misinformation and decision-making. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Discuss key moments in the historical development of artificial intelligence
Explain the basic technical operations of artificial intelligence (model design, training and inference).
Recognise, analyse and reflect critically on key debates around AI technologies (gender, racial and other bias; impacts on labour and the future of work; spread of mis/disinformation)
Use AI to produce creative work that highlights aspects of AI’s cultural and social impact.
Communicate effectively in a range of forms including individual / group-based outputs and written and creative work.
Apply knowledge gained in this subject to other areas of experience. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words Due Week 4 20 N Individual N  Proposal Due Week 6/7 10 N Group N  Reflection 500 words Due Week 9/10 20 N Individual N  Presentation 10mins Presentation  Due Week 12/13 20 N Group N  Case Study 1,000 words  Due Week 15 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)