Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3078 Business Report Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 201043 Coordinator Dorothea Bowyer Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to bring to life the knowledge gained during the students' study whilst applying it practically to diverse business contexts through a work integrated learning research project. The project will build on the comprehensive, coherent and connected knowledge gained in business specialisations to allow the student to explore and develop attributes required to be successful in contributing to outcomes in a business environment.   Students will have an opportunity to work under the supervision of an academic on a research project.  Assessment of the subject will include a formal research presentation to academics and/or industry. Entry to this subject is on a competitive basis.  Contact the subject coordinator for details. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must have permission from the subject Coordinator and must have completed a minimum of 160 credit points (or equivalent) prior to undertaking this subject and must have 20 credit points of subjects available, within program allowances, to take this subject. The availability of supervision of projects, a student's ability to meet any special, safety, or identified persons requirements of a project site, the student's academic record and any record of misconduct, will also be considered. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan, organise and manage a business-related research project to completion;
Identify and use research literature relevant to a specific business issue or project;
Select and employ appropriate data collection methods;
Synthesise theoretical knowledge and context specific information in relation to a specific business issue or project;
Produce an analytical report including recommendations;
Present in a formal environment to peers and academics. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview - Research Project Pitch 25 Minutes 20 N Individual   Report - Research Report 6,000 words 50 N Individual   Presentation - Research Presentation 25 minutes 30 N Individual   Participation Throughout semester- workshops (as timetabled for the unit) and meetings with supervisor and project hosts as required (scope of meetings to be set early in session) S/U Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)