Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7023 Culture, Subjectivities and Schooling Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102071 Coordinator Mohamed Moustakim Opens in new window Description From 2024, this subject is replaced by TEAC 7032 Diversity, Social Justice and Schooling. This subject focuses on the socio-political, economic and cultural milieu that shapes teacher and student subjectivities. Teachers are required to understand the variety of, and changing nature of, discourses and ideologies that both constitute and are constituted in society, schooling, teaching, and learning, in an increasingly multifaceted, globalized and cosmopolitan environment. Within this framework it is also essential that teachers engage with and understand the diversity and fluidity of individuals and the broader Australian community in order to promote equitable practices in schooling and to facilitate educational and professional transformation. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and their relationship to schooling will also be explored in this subject, providing pre-service teachers with deeper understandings of Australia's first nations people. Developing understandings of society, culture and the formation of subjectivities will promote an enhanced awareness of equity issues as well as crucial analytical and critical tools to address the needs of diverse students, their families, teachers, and the broader school community. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7039 - Education Knowledge Society and Change Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. Students must be enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary), 1651 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Primary Teaching), 1822 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean’s Scholars, 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) or 6019 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary). Students enrolled in 6019 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary, must have completed 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher). Students enrolled in 1651 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) or 1822 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean’s Scholars must have completed 160 credit points. Students enrolled in 3756 Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) must have completed 120 Credit Points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the role and impact of broader socio-political, economic, historical and/or cultural dimensions on the formation of teacher and student subjectivities, pedagogy and education more broadly.
Describe Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander social and kinship systems, significance of country, language and culture with a view to understanding Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners and communities. Students will be able to articulate approaches to redress discrimination and inequity.
Explain how subjectivities are socially constructed and describe how culture/cultures of schooling can perpetuate and position particular understandings of diversity, with a focus on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities, gender, sexualities, ethnicities, 'race',  religion and class and their intersections.
Explain the new sociology of childhood including how childhood is socially constructed and the implications for learning, teaching and young people.
Discuss the changing nature and role of family and family diversity and how educators can help sustain the capacity of families, communities and the school to engage all students.
Evaluate relevant policies and legislative requirements related to rights and responsibilities of students, parents, other community members and teachers and apply appropriate theoretical tools to critically analyse these in relation to cultures of schools and the effects on learning.
Describe how supportive learning environments might be developed where students feel safe to risk Subject Content 1. Sociology in the curriculum. Merit/competition. Hidden and manifest curriculum. Knowledge and governmentality.
2. Social construction of childhood and family. Political, economic and social policy perspectives. Contemporary debates.
3. Theories of diversity and difference. Understanding culture as constituted in class, ethnicity, racialization, religion gender and sexualities.
4. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage and cultural practices. Impacts of colonisation and racism and their relationship to the educational outcomes of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners. Strategies to redress these outcomes in schooling contexts.
5. Key sociological concepts and their relationship to education including but not limited to: culture; ‘Whiteness’; White privilege; subjectivity; discourse; power; knowledge; discipline; embodiment; surveillance; silence; normalisation; punishment; habitus; capital; field.
6. Policy and legislation pertaining to school-based issues regarding access and equity, multiculturalism, religion, migration, citizenship, anti-discrimination and human rights.
7. Discrimination, prejudice and privilege; bullying, cyber bullying, violence and its manifestation in educational contexts.
8. Literature review in relation to social justice and/or equity issue considering critical and analytical approaches. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 30 minutes 30 N Group Y  Quiz 6 quizzes; 10 minutes per quiz 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2000 Words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact  Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)