Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 2007 Introduction to Structural Engineering Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300733 Coordinator Won Hee Kang Opens in new window Description This subject covers the basic concepts in analysing and designing simple structural members.  It consists of the fundamentals of structural analysis, concrete structures and steel structures School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Structural Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MECH 2003 Equivalent Subjects CIVL 2006 - Introduction to Structural Engineering CIVL 2008 - Introduction to Structural Engineering (WSTC Assoc Deg) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the reactions and internal forces in statically determinate structures under a variety of loading conditions.
Determine the influence lines for statically determinate beams.
Determine the deflections of statically determinate beams, trusses and frames.
Use force methods to analyse statically indeterminate beams.
Recognize the effect of material properties on the behaviour of simple steel and concrete structures.
Apply structural analysis in the design process.
Identify what the appropriate materials are used, and design simple steel and reinforced concrete flexural elements. Subject Content Analysis of statically determinate beams and frames.
Analysis of statically determinate trusses.
Influence lines for beams and trusses.
Deflections of trusses, beams and frames.
Force method for statically indeterminate structures.
Determination of dead and live loads on steel and concrete structures.
Determination of sizes for simple steel beams under load.
Determination of dimensions and reinforcement for reinforced concrete beams under load. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 13 hours 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Peter Lendrum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ankit Agarwal Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Xinqun Zhu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Won Hee Kang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034)