Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7037 Early Learning Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102622 Coordinator Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window Description Learning occurs within the context of a dynamic global society that has important cultural, social, historical and environmental dimensions. Students will explore a range of theoretical perspectives and pedagogical approaches that support learning about human society and its environment including areas of history, geography, civics and citizenship and sustainability for children in early childhood and primary school settings. Policies and frameworks around risk and play will be explored. First Nations’ perspectives and inclusive pedagogies that support equality and diversity will be examined. Through a 35 hours (equivalent of 5 days) placement at an early childhood setting, students will evaluate the relationship between childhood environments and children’s experience of place and everyday learning. Students will design learning experiences that support children’s investigation, discovery, problem solving and meaning making using a range of materials and texts. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in one of the following programs:
1708 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12),
6017 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12), 
1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 
1784 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years),
1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary), 
1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) Students enrolled in 1708 Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) must have successfully completed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6017 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) must have successfully completed 190 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate central concepts, modes of inquiry and a range of pedagogies for teaching history and geography, civics and citizenship and their application for early childhood and primary school-settings.
Discuss the relationship between First Nations’ perspectives of place, contemporary theories and philosophies of child - nature relationships and sustainability education.
Explain the way in which pedagogical approaches support classroom cultural diversity (EAL/D and First Nations students), place-based learning and connection in early education and primary school settings.
Analyse the impact of sociocultural and inclusive representations in physical environments on children’s learning experiences.
Design learning experiences, curriculum and assessment items for children in early education and school settings that draw on theories of place and place pedagogies, child- nature connections and sustainability.
Integrate strategies that support differentiation and inclusivity to meet the diverse capabilities of children in early childhood and primary school settings.
Engage professionally with children, families and colleagues in an early childhood setting. Subject Content Introduction to theories of children in nature and outdoor learning through play. 
Methods for researching inside and outside physical learning environments for and with children, including evaluating relationships between these environments and children’s experiences of place. 
Changes to children’s play and learning spaces over time. 
Significance of place and local context, space and time as influencing factors on everyday interactions. 
Relevant national and international theories and philosophies related to child-nature relationships and sustainability education, including First Nations perspectives, socio-cultural influences, and place-based pedagogies. 
Key global policies and regulations for outdoor learning, play, safety and risk, and inclusive environments that recognise agency, equality, cultural identity, rights and responsibilities.  
Documenting and assessing learning programs and their potential to support place-based pedagogies, sustainability learning, civics and active citizenship, and social sciences in early childhood and primary school contexts. 
Planning and designing children’s learning experiences utilising physical environment features that are underpinned by indigenous knowledge systems, place-based pedagogies, child/nature theories and integrated sustainability learning and play affordances. 
Planning and designing curriculum and assessment utilising the NSW History and Geography Syllabuses, and curriculum frameworks such as the Early Years Learning Framework for Australia. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to: i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number. ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email. iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents. iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form. iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified. v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to: i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to: i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. Inherent Requirements Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 Years / Birth -12 Years). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 5 days Attendance at an early childhood setting S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kumara Ward Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Education Studies (Birth - 5/Birth - 12), Major (0156) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)