Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 1008 Graphic Design: Process and Practice (WSTC) Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 700194 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to further develop their understanding of the design process within the context of project briefs that introduce areas of graphic design practice that include branding and identity and information design.  Students' understanding of a design brief, the client and a clearly defined audience will deepen.  Students will be introduced to some design specific research skills, such as mood board and persona development, which will help them begin to build a toolkit of methods which they will use throughout their degree.  Students will develop their design process and a greater awareness of the role of research in the generation of ideas.  Students will be introduced to further lateral thinking techniques and encouraged to develop creative responses to the project briefs within appropriate constraints for both client and audience needs.  Further key software will be introduced and supported by online resources and students will continue to develop their visual design skills in the fundamental areas of type, image and composition. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1010 Co-requisite(s) Course 6013 - Diploma in DesignBachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary)
Course 6011 - Diploma in DesignBachelor of Design (Visual Communication)
Students enrolled in the combined DiplomaBachelor courses listed below must pass all College Preparatory units listed in the course structure before progressing to the Year 2 units Equivalent Subjects DESN 1007 - Graphic Design Process and Practice Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret the requirements of a design brief, the client and a clearly defined audience and apply these to their design work.
Develop a range of design specific research skills and apply such methods as part of their design process.
Apply lateral thinking and design thinking techniques to develop creative responses to project briefs.
Utilise a range of appropriate visual approaches in the fundamental areas of type, image and composition.
Utilise a wider range of features of Adobe CC as an industry standard software application for production.
Create a brand identify in response to a client brief.
Interpret and communicate complex information to a specific audience. Subject Content Branding:
1. What is branding ? it?fs more than just a logo.
2. What is a client? Defining the client ? precedent and documentary research skills.
3. What is an audience? Defining your audience
4. Mood boards and personas ? design specific research skills
5. Precedent research skills.
6. Brand personality, tone of voice etc.
7. Logo design.
8. Copywriting.
Introduction to information design:
1. Basic models of information design.
2. The role of purpose, audience and context within information design.
3. The taxonomy of organisation.
4. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Design practice therefore no length / duration 20 N Group N  Professional Task Research 20%
Development 20%
Design practice therefore no length / duration 40 N Individual N  Practical Research 20%
Development 20%
Design practice therefore no length / duration 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Ben Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Design (exit only) (7044) Diploma in Design Extended - Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (7153) Diploma in Design Extended - Visual Communication (7152) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6013) Graphic and Design (DESN)