Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5007 EALD Curriculum 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102865 Coordinator Pegah Marandi Opens in new window Description The subject will examine theories and model effective pedagogies for teaching and assessing English as an Additional Language Dialect (EALD) students in diverse classrooms. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with strategies for teaching language proficiencies in spoken and written texts. Students will learn how to teach for meaning and understanding in language forms using syntax and semantic structures such as grammar and vocabulary. The specifics of the relevant NSW and Australian English Syllabus and curriculum documents will be analysed and critiqued. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying EALD pedagogy to develop an understanding of the cultural and language barriers faced by EALD students. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) - Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have a relevant English Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of NSW English curriculum in Stages 4 and 5 with reference to EALD students.
Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in the EALD English curriculum area to develop reading, speaking, listening, and writing skills for secondary students. 
Engage with texts that develop an understanding and appreciation of the cultural expression of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills, which consider the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Design a suitable range of assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning for EALD students.
Apply a variety of EALD teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of texts in teaching lessons and programs.
Reflect on professional learning for EALD teachers. Subject Content What are EALD language systems for spoken and written texts in the early and middle years of secondary education? 
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed in the teaching of English to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and other EALD students? 
Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in EALD? 
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject? 
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in EALD?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem-solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in EALD? 
What is assessment for learning in EALD using ESL scales? 
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)? 
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of EALD? 
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about EALD teaching? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Pegah Marandi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)