Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2024 Japanese 201 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102028 Coordinator Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window Description This subject is designed as a post-beginner level language and culture subject intended for students who have studied this language to at least HSC level or equivalent. This subject focuses on the development of the grammatical structures and vocabulary in such areas as using polite and plain style of the language, verb conjugation for expressing conjecture, adverbial clauses indicating specific times and places, conditional, etc. The knowledge of kanji is increased to 260 characters. The subject is not suitable for background speakers (i.e., who have completed formal secondary education where Japanese is used as an official language and also the language of instruction at the School).  Note: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or sub major in Japanese are encouraged to enrol in Japanese 202 at the same time. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2028 - Language Communication Skills 2A Japanese Assumed Knowledge Japanese 102 or knowledge. Learning Outcomes demonstrate understanding of key morphological and syntactic structures of the Japanese language
use a broad lexical base and common expressions in a range of socio-cultural contexts and situations involving other learners and native speakers
read a range of basic text types and respond appropriately either orally or in writing (approximately 260 kanji characters)
write and express ideas in a range of text types including descriptions, narratives, journal entries, using the Japanese they are acquiring
aurally comprehend Japanese in a variety of informal and formal contexts and respond appropriately, orally or in writing
apply cultural knowledge to develop links with Japanese speakers and their cultural contexts
apply independent learning strategies for acquiring another language Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio equivalent to 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project equivalent to 2 A4 pages in Japanese 30 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam maximum 2 hours in length 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)