Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 6006 Music Therapy Skills & Practice D Credit Points 20 Coordinator Allison Fuller Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the development of creative therapeutic music skills to support the delivery of music therapy to individual and group participants across the lifespan. Students learn, practice, and demonstrate a diverse range of skill sets that can be applied within their Registered Music Therapist Practicum Placement or Independent Placement as appropriate. This subject utilises creative active learning experiences within a lectorial format and addresses focus areas including: practicum placement; therapeutic music skills; music therapy methods (receptive); technology in music therapy; and culture-centred music therapy. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 6003 - Music Therapy Skills Practice A
OR
PERF 6005 - Music Therapy Skills Practice C Equivalent Subjects PERF 7002 - Creative Music Therapy Practicum 2
PERF 7012 - Music Therapy Skills and Practice D Restrictions This subject is only available to students enrolled in program 1650 Master of Creative Music Therapy. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Employ critical thinking strategies in applying music therapy practical skills to in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings with a focus on: skills, repertoire, and improvisation frameworks for Guitar, Piano, Voice, Plusmore!
Explain the application of the Standards of Practice and apply them to in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings for individual and group music therapy participants
Describe and report on experiences and learnings from RMT Placement (1st Yr) or Independent Placement (2nd Yr)
Design and demonstrate a receptive experience for use with an individual or group within a music therapy setting
Apply knowledge of: the Guided Imagery in Music Approach, Electronic Music Technologies (EMTs); Culture-Centred practice; and Creative Arts within in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings
Demonstrate a student novice (1st Year) or student advanced beginner (2nd Year) level of music therapy skills within the following method: Receptive Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements
Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements
Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements
To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet.
NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you 1. Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one
2. Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history
3. Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements
4. Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements
Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as
• If you live outside of NSW or Australia and need to meet your state, territory or country’s compliance requirements
• If you need to meet different state, territory or country compliance requirements.
• NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) or other state equivalent, valid for your entire program.
• Current approved first aid certificate valid for your entire program - approved program providers can be found at the Government Training website
• http://training.gov.au • Other non-health related requirements. Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only)
https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students enrolled in this subject are expected to have access to a guitar and a piano/keyboard; and own technology devices for listening to MP3 files and making basic short videos. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 30 minutes 20 Y Individual Y  Practical 4 x 2-minute videos and 4 x 200 words 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 10-minute video and 500 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 160 hours and 10 x 250 words 20 Y Individual Y  Participation Attendance at a minimum of 11 lectorials across the semester S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Creative Music Therapy (1650) Performing Arts (PERF)