Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3021 Professional Experience 3:  Engaging with Diverse Students and Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102656 Coordinator Kellie Jorda Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with the opportunity to participate in a 20-day professional experience set in the context of their future profession and under the supervision of qualified teachers. As Pre-service Teachers, students will develop an understanding of diverse learners within specific school and classroom contexts. Individual students’ strengths, needs and learning styles will be identified to support the design and delivery of teaching experiences that will enhance engagement and learning. The subject also gives students an opportunity to reflect on the processes involved in the teaching cycle, and refine their competencies as beginning teachers. Students are required to analyse their own learning in relation to the Graduate Teacher Standards as a review of the progress of their Learning Portfolio. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 3020 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education and have successfully completed 240 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of research on how students' skills, interests and prior achievements affect learning and use this information to inform teaching strategies;
Implement lesson plans detailing objectives and outcomes, specifying content and pedagogy assessment, in consultation with the supervising teacher;
Evaluate students' specific strengths, needs and learning styles;
Design teaching and learning programs and/or lesson plans with differentiated tasks to meet the learning needs of individual students and that promote student engagement;
Use a variety of resources to support the learning style and needs of diverse students;
Execute an enthusiastic and positive attitude towards students as individuals and learners;
Design a respectful and collegial classroom environment where all students are valued and supported. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid, and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
     i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
     ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
     iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link b) Students will need to:
     i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
     ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
     iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
     iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
     v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) a) Students will need to:
     i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
     ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
     iii.  Save certificate of completion
     iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal b) Students will need to:
     i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
     ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
     iii.  Save certificate of completion
     iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Primary). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 20 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 20 days S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio Update of portfolio from Primary Professional Experience 2: 250 -300 words’ reflection per artefact S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Teacher Education (TEAC)