Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 2029 DevOps Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tomas Trescak Opens in new window Description DevOps engineers build tools and pipelines for companies delivering software solutions, assuring the quality of their products. By utilising DevOps, companies limit the risk of introducing errors when updating their applications and experiences which allows them to better serve their customers and dynamically react to their needs. In this subject, students learn the principles and philosophy of DevOps and how to build DevOps tools. Students apply their knowledge in practical activities to create and maintain pipelines for continuous delivery. This involves calculating delivery metrics, estimating and evaluating measures of success. Based on the performance in the subject, a selected number of students will have the opportunity to undergo a week-long placement with a target industry partner. Students doing the placement will work on industry projects assessed by professional staff at their placement venue. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFO1003 Co-requisite(s) INFO 3019 Learning Outcomes Explain DevOps principles, methods, practices in terms of Industry application
Assess the complexity of business operation and facilitate it using DevOps strategies
Collaborate with a diverse team to deliver projects on time to customers in a complex environment 
Manage the process of DevOps utilising a range of project management tools
Create and manage the software implementation and distribution models, software release processes (source, build, test, production)
Implement continuous delivery, continuous (automated) deployment, and continuous monitoring pipelines Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 hours / 500 words 40 N Individual N  Applied Project Part A: 3000 words  (plus 1000 lines of programming code)  Part B: 15 minutes 60 Y Group Y Placement The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 hours / 500 words 40 N Individual N  Applied Project Part A: 3000 words  (plus 1000 lines of programming code)  Part B: 15 minutes  Part C: 1500 words 60 Y Group Y Prescribed Texts Kim, G., Humble, J., Debois, P., & Willis, J. (2021). The DevOps handbook: How to create world-class agility, reliability, & security in technology organizations (2nd ed.). IT Revolution Press. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tomas Trescak Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Enterprise Systems and Architectures, Testamur Major (T151) Software Development, Minor (0329) Software Development, Testamur Major (T148)