Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7002 Building Regulations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300947 Coordinator Payam Rahnamayiezekavat Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the role and functions of the building surveyor and the National Construction Code of Australia (NCCA). The topics include building legislation, NCCA general provisions, structure and philosophy. Students are required to understand the objectives, the function statements and the performance requirements of various sections of Volume One of NCCA. The concept of performance based approach is discussed and compared with the prescriptive approach. The content covers the relationship between research in the development of building codes and the role played by approval/certifying authorities in building assessment and approval. Legal obligations of building surveyors, their tasks of assessment, enforcement and documentation are also explained. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Surveying Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BLDG 7010 - Fire and Building Regulations Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge This subject assumes that the student has undertaken study in building construction, building surveying, engineering, architecture or a related area or has the relevant AQF qualification and gained basic building regulation knowledge by working in the construction industry in an appropriate capacity for at least four years. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret and apply building and building related legislations
Explain the fundamental concepts and intent of the NCCA
Explain various assessment methods contained in the NCCA
Discuss the provisions of the NCCA for various building classes.
Identify disparities between designs and building code provisions
Assess building designs according to their NCCA compliance and explain how performance requirements can be met
Describe the involvement of relevant stakeholders in the decision making process Subject Content Introduction to the National Construction Code of Australia
Structure and format of NCCA Volume One
General provisions of NCCA Volume One
Performance based regulations and verification methods
Fire resisting construction
Access and egress
Essential fire safety measures
Health, amenity and energy efficiency
NCCA and the related standards and guidelines
Working with performance requirements of the NCCA
Building Surveying practice
Role and functions of building surveyors and Building Acts and Regulations.
Building surveying practice, legal obligations, enforcement and accreditation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Short Answer 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Case Study 4000 words 60 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Payam Rahnamayiezekavat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Graduate Certificate in Fire Safety Engineering (3792) Graduate Diploma in Building Surveying (3789) Graduate Diploma in Fire Safety Engineering (3791) Master of Building Surveying (3703) Master of Fire Safety Engineering (3705)