Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7111 Professional Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102163 Coordinator Christine Johnston Opens in new window Description Professional project enables students to engage in an intensive study of an aspect of work related learning in order to develop, implement or improve some aspect of current professional or personal practice. It provides opportunities for students to use research skills and related theory directly as they implement a practice-based research-informed project within their own areas of specialisation. Students will be required to consult, present 'work in progress' and prepare a final report for a suitable audience. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7115 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7055 - Independent Studies – Practice in Context Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1911 Master of Education, 1726 Master of Education (Leadership), 1720 Master of Inclusive Education or 1723 Master of Education (Social Ecology). Students enrolled in Graduate Certificates in School of Education programs are not permitted to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse their own personal or professional practice;
Identify theoretical assumptions underpinning the areas and issues in the study;
Evaluate research literature and determine its relevance for practice;
Implement a project which applies research skills to develop or improve current practice;
Critique the project and its links to the disciplinary field Subject Content Unit content will be individualised according to the students?f project needs. Specific project content, negotiated with peers and lecturers/mentors, should be directly relevant to and enhancing their personal professional knowledge practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 5,000 words 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Peter Mcdonald Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Christine Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 4 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Christine Johnston Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Professional Practice (1912) Master of Education (1911) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Teacher Education (TEAC)