Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7015 Master Project 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300598 Coordinator Qi Cheng Opens in new window Description This subject is a continuation of subject Master Project 1 and is a problem based project subject. Students are expected to conduct self studies under supervision by academic staff and deliver the final outcomes of the research topics that are proposed in Master Project 1. Students will employ the identified methodologies to carry out the research plans and fulfil the research objectives with the defined scope. Each individual student is required to produce an oral presentation and a final written report in one of the fields of engineering, construction, information technology or data science. Students will acquire problem solving skills in this subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Engineering and Related Technologies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) ENGR 7014 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5829 - Master of Engineering Project LGYA 4576 - Built environment Research Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Please note: Students enrolled in 3693 Master of Engineering must select the campus offering, not the online mode. Assumed Knowledge (1) Knowledge in one of the fields in engineering, construction, information technology, data science or a related discipline; (2) Knowledge in research methodology; and (3) Skills in literature review and oral presentation. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Continuous review of existing literature in the relevant area and draw relevance to the proposed research project.
Execute a prepared research plan using appropriate methodologies.
Analyse and evaluate research findings to achieve intended project outcomes.
Write technical documents on ideas, concepts, arguments and conclusions professionally.
Communicate research results at a professional level through an oral presentation. Subject Content 1. Implementation of research methodology. The methodology and research plan that have been established in Master Project 1 are implemented in this subject. Students may carry out experimental work or numerical simulations or theoretical analysis or field studies.
2. Literature review. Further review and appraise current literature related to the student's study topic.
3. Analysis and discussion. Conduct detailed quantitative and qualitative analyses of the data collected and discuss the results.
4. Reporting. Produce a complete dissertation and present the final findings clearly stating the student's own original contribution to the topic. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minute presentation followed by 5 minutes questions and answers session 20 N Individual Y  Report 10000 words 80 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qinghua Zeng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Qi Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Other information Technology (INFO)