Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 1002 Concepts in Human Anatomy (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700266 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description This subject provides a basic understanding of human embryological development, anatomical terminology, and a range of foundation concepts in human anatomy. Students must attend a 'wet' laboratory session where the learning of anatomy will be enhanced through the study of human cadaveric material. Wet laboratory sessions are not available on the Nirimba campus, and therefore students will need to travel to Campbelltown in order to attend these sessions. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 1001 - Concepts in Human Anatomy Assumed Knowledge HSC Biology, and/or at least one first year level biology subject: Biodiversity and/or Cell Biology. Learning Outcomes Use anatomical terminology correctly.
Describe the process of human development from fertilisation to organogenesis.
Describe the major structural levels of organisation in the human body.
Describe the general features of the major tissue types and explain their relationship with major structural levels of organisation.
Describe and apply the basic principles of osteology: bone formation and repair, classifications and functions, names of major bones.
Describe and apply the basic principles of arthrology: functional and structural joint classifications.
Describe and apply the basic principles of myology: skeletal muscle classification and functions.
Identify and describe anatomy and main functions of the major body systems: cardiovascular; respiratory; gastrointestinal; reproductive; urinary; neurological.
Identify and describe the general features of the major tissue types and explain their relationship with major structural levels of organisation.
Describe and apply the basic principles of the integumentary and endocrine systems
Identify and describe the anatomy of the body cavities, the major organ body systems that occupy these cavities and the physical and functional relationships of these systems to one another Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory     Intra-session Exams(Online Quizzes) 30 mins each 25 N Individual   Intra-session Exam 1 hr  20 N Individual   3a Practical
3b Participation 3a.1 hr
3b. 2 x 3 hrs 3a. 20%, 3b. 5% = 25 N Individual   End of Session Exam 2 hrs 30 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Diploma in Science Fast Track (7009) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)