Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2034 Keeping the Past Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100001 Coordinator Karen Entwistle Opens in new window Description Legislation requires the preservation of natural, built and movable heritage, but choices about what to keep often produce controversy and reveal starkly varying opinions about what is historic. From the choice of people commemorated in statues to modest buildings on the site of new developments, local communities and central governments are divided about whose past is protected and praised. The historian's investigation of places and objects is an important part of the formal assessment process and may be part of controversial debates.  Parramatta has a rich selection of heritage places. How does heritage fit in a modern CBD? Site visits around the city will identify archaeological and architectural heritage to promote discussions, museums will showcase objects from the past, documents preserved in archives will offer insights and historical research techniques will help to answer the questions "What should be kept from the past?" and "Why should it be kept?" School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 9196 - Keeping the Past Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Observe historic places and objects.
Identify the frameworks within which heritage is protected.
Examine the processes required to research and establish historical significance.
Explore political controversy and historical uncertainty. Subject Content 1. What makes a place or an object historic?
2. Identifying and recording the past through site and museum visits.
3. Researching historic places and objets.
4. Historical evidence and assessments of significance.
5. Preserving the past - conservation or restoration?
6. Managing the past and its interpretation
7. Heritage legislation and relevant organisations. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words 15 N Individual Y  Applied Project 1,500 words 45 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Karen Entwistle Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karen Entwistle Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Karen Entwistle Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Ancient History Education, Major (0352) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)