Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3013 Social Work and Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400513 Coordinator George Turner Opens in new window Description This subject integrates health as focus for social work as a profession and as a specific domain of practice. This advanced subject has three main areas of focus. The first area is developing knowledge and skills to critically analyse concepts related to health in global and local social work practice, including decolonising and Indigenous ways of knowing. The second is exploring health for specific populations and communities, the context of health service provision in Australia, and social work in health services. The third is professional skills for social work practice, including social work assessment and health promotion. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 2017 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1666 Bachelor of Social Work, 4598 Bachelor of Social Work or 4599 Bachelor of Social Work (Honours) and 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Distinguish the relevant social work concepts of health in contemporary health issues.
Critically analyse health concepts for global and local social work practice, incorporating decolonisation and Indigenous ways of knowing.
Critically analyse health for specific populations and communities, health service provision, and the context of social work practice in health services.
Apply foundational social work assessment skills to a health context, including demonstration of skills identified by the AASW mental health competency standards. Subject Content Concepts of health for social work practice, including health as a social issue, social determinants of health, and health and social justice
Social work practice in health settings, health services, and with specific populations
Social work practice skills for health, including assessment and health promotion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 10 quizzes with 5 questions each 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 1,500 words 30 N Group Y  Report 1,500 words 45 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact George Turner Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact George Turner Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)