Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1015 Development and Sustainability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101572 Coordinator Julie Wen Opens in new window Description The subject introduces the basic concepts relating to sustainability and development, and explores their relevance to real-world situations at the local, national, and global levels. The causes of unsustainability as well as their short-term and long-term effects on society and the environment will be evaluated. Students will analyse, using appropriate sustainability indicators and social change theories, a social change initiative (i.e., program, project, policy) designed to integrate the socio-economic, cultural and environmental dimensions of sustainability within the context of a specific developmental focus (e.g. poverty alleviation, gender equality, human/social development, heritage conservation, biodiversity, tourism, green accounting, sustainable livelihoods). Students will engage in problem-based learning skills in order to critically analyse and discuss current issues in development, and provide solutions to sustainability. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify the core concepts and practice of sustainability and development 
2. Identify and assess current issues/problems in achieving sustainable development, including their causes and impacts
3. Apply theories in the sustainable practice of various types/categories of development (i.e. social, cultural, economic, environmental)
4. Apply sustainable indicators in the analysis of social change initiatives designed to promote sustainable development 
5. Demonstrate skills in problem-solving, in oral and written communications Subject Content 1. Core concepts/theories about sustainability and development
2. Major issues concerning the sustainability of developmental initiatives and their effects on the socio-economic and cultural aspects of society
3. Major issues concerning the sustainability of the natural environment  
4. Evaluation of social/cultural, environmental, and economic elements of development for sustainability
5. Alternative technologies and sustainable living/livelihoods
6. Basic social change theories and practice
7. Sustainability indicators of development at different temporal and spatial scales
8. Barriers to sustainability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1000 words, 1 hour 40 N Individual N  Report 1800 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes per group, equivalent of 200 words per person 20 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Julie Wen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Julie Wen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Human Rights, Protection and Development, Major (0095) Humanitarian and Development Studies, Major (0332) Peace and Development Studies, Major (0027) Peace and Development Studies, Minor (0027) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainable Development, Major (0163)