Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2021 Early Childhood Curriculum and Pedagogy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102674 Coordinator Denise Fraser Opens in new window Description This subject supports a developing understanding of the principles and practices of early childhood curriculum and pedagogy. A range of approaches to curriculum and pedagogy will also be examined. Students will learn about approaches to observing and documenting children’s learning in ways that celebrate children’s competencies and build connections between children, families and educators while also identifying any areas where children’s experiences may be extended. Students will develop strategies for planning and connecting curriculum to children’s social worlds which facilitate children’s in-depth investigations and critical thinking in ways that cater for diverse interests. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 80 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Explain the theoretical bases of learning, development and play.
Critically analyse a range of curriculum approaches and pedagogies. 
Discuss the influence of different contexts on curriculum and pedagogies. 
Observe, document and assess children’s interests, funds of knowledge, learning, development and play. 
Create learning experiences that engage children and support investigation, critical thinking and problem solving. 
Critique strategies for engaging children from diverse communities, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander backgrounds, as competent and capable learners. Subject Content Theoretical underpinnings of early childhood curriculum - theories of learning, development, and motivation, play based pedagogy 
Approaches to Curriculum: Child centred curriculum - Inquiry Based Learning, Emergent Curriculum, Project approach, Reggio approach
Observation, documentation, assessment and planning 
Strategies to engage diverse learners; investigating, inquiry learning, questioning, facilitating, sustained shared thinking, deep thinking, sensory play with children aged 0-2 
Using questioning to facilitate thinking across the curriculum (mathematical thinking, scientific thinking, critical thinking, creative thinking, problem solving, cooperative thinking)  
Reflective thinking on engaging children Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 20 N Individual   Reflection 1,500 words 40 N Individual   Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)