Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1043 Communication in Health (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500055 Coordinator Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window Description Communication is integral to professional relationships, whether working individually with a client, educating community members on health matters, or working with other professionals as part of a multidisciplinary team. This subject aims to develop written and verbal communication skills in preparation for work within the health professions across these areas. Communication skills will include those needed to form therapeutic relationships with individual clients and groups, as well as those required to communicate health information to clients, groups and the wider community. Students will develop skills to establish appropriate working relationships with professional colleagues. School Health Sciences Discipline Verbal Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7034 Communication for the Helping Professions COMM 1008 Communication in Health COMM 1007 Communication in Health Restrictions Students need to be enrolled in one of the following programs: 7171 Undergraduate Certificate in Public Health Support, 7172 Undergraduate Certificate in Health Services Management, 7173 Undergraduate Certificate in Aged Care Support, 7176 Undergraduate Certificate in Disability Care Support Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse and evaluate the characteristics of health professional relationships with clients, colleagues, and the wider community.
Reflect on the impact of personal attitudes, beliefs and values on communication.
Apply essential verbal and written communication skills in the interaction with individual clients, patients, significant others, colleagues and other health stakeholders.
Analyse and apply strategies to adapt communication processes to meet the varying health literacy or special needs of clients, family and significant others.
Employ teamwork skills relevant to working in health care settings. Subject Content 1.Theoretical frameworks and processes in effective communication
2.Skills for effective communication with clients, colleagues and the community
3.Self-awareness in professional communication
4.The nature of effective helping as a health care professional
5.Communicating in teams
6.Working with people who have different communication needs
7.Professional written and presentation communication skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 4 minutes 30 Y Individual Y  Case Study 6 - 8 minutes 30 N Group N  Portfolio 1200 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Block C Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Block E Session (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mia Hatzistergos Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Undergraduate Certificate in Aged Care Support (7173) Undergraduate Certificate in Disability Care Support (7176) Undergraduate Certificate in Health Services Management (7172) Undergraduate Certificate in Public Health Support (7171)