Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 1009 Midwifery Knowledge 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401030 Coordinator Emma Collins Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the meaning of birth in society and the historical and social contexts of midwifery, from its early beginnings, to its current professional standing. The philosophy of midwifery and the role of the midwife within a continuity of care framework will be explored with a particular focus on the provision of care in the antenatal period. This will include approaches for working in partnership with women and their families. Students will investigate, identify and access scientific information and research in order to develop academic literacy at a beginning level. They will identify the principles of communication and explore educational resources for childbirth. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 1023 AND NURS 1012 for students in program 4684 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the philosophy of midwifery and the historical development of midwifery as a profession and how Primary Health Care (PHC) principles relate to the provision of midwifery care.
Describe the role and professional responsibilities of the midwife in the provision of safe woman centred midwifery care during pregnancy.
Describe the history and culture of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and their traditions around pregnancy and identify culturally safe maternity care practices and resources in urban, rural and remote settings.
Explain Cultural Safety and Cultural Competence and appreciate the impact of culture on the meaning of birth for yourself and others
Demonstrate the concepts of lifelong learning, reflection and critical thinking, as they relate to midwifery practice
Describe the models of care available for women and the benefits of midwifery continuity of care. Subject Content Conception to 12 weeks 13-26 weeks 27 weeks to term Historical and Political Context of Childbirth Preparation for Professional and Academic Life Midwife’s Role in Pregnancy Special Requirements Essential equipment Essential Equipment: Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio Revision is of the 1500 words. Reflection 400 words 20 N Individual Y  Intra-session Quiz 1 hour 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Emma Collins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Nursing (NURS)