Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7072 Surgical Pathology of the Female Genital Tract Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401479 Coordinator Tristan Rutland Opens in new window Description This subject will revise the diagnostic entities in gynaecological pathology that were introduced in Surgical Pathology IV. The first self-directed online learning module is composed of digitalized images and practical notes on the diagnostic approach to important pathological entities of gynaecological pathology. A second online module will revise the sub-specialities covered in Surgical Pathology I through V. Students will be required to complete a literature review of contemporary and emerging developments in a relevant pathological entity. This subject is designed to revise all areas of surgical pathology within the Master of Pathology as well as promote engagement with professional development activities relevant to a career as a pathologist. School Medicine Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects MEDI 7037 - Surgical Pathology 6 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4750 Masters of Medicine (Pathology). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine and interpret advanced diagnostic entities in surgical pathology in the subspecialty of gynaecological pathology
Identify and apply appropriate ancillary techniques in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions within all subspecialties of surgical pathology
Identify common and uncommon disease entities in surgical pathology based on their histological features
Report pathological findings using written and oral communication skills to patients, other health professional and related stakeholders
Engage in professional development activities related to anatomical pathology Subject Content Gynaecological pathology Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students need to meet the legislative requirements to be in a supervised specialist training role in Pathology, and hence be working clinically in a hospital/laboratory setting. If a student fails to meet these requirements they will not be allowed to enrol in the subject. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 20 cases ~300-500 words each S/U Y Individual Y  Literature Review 2500 word limit 50 Y Individual Y  Report 10 cases
~300-500 words each 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Master of Medicine (Pathology) (4750) Medical Studies (MEDI)