Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 4003 Integrated Clinical Rotations 4 Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 400978 Coordinator Benjamin Woodham Opens in new window Description Integrated Clinical Rotations 4 is the final subject in the MBBS course and consists of clinical rotations in Medicine, Surgery and two of General Practice, Indigenous Health and ICU/Emergency/Anaesthetics.  Students also undertake two Scientific Streams and two Conference weeks. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 4002 OR
LGYA 7789 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4641 Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Provides patient centred care as a member of an interdisciplinary team under appropriate supervision: Communication, Patient Assessment, Patient Management
Promotes the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations, with particular focus on Greater Western Sydney, rural, regional and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia: Determinants of Health and Illness, Health Needs, Health Care Systems, Health Promotion, Indigenous Health
Demonstrates and develops professional skills, responsibilities and attitudes: Ethical Practice, Teamwork, Learning and Teaching, Personal Needs, Medical humanities
Develops and applies a sound understanding of the scientific foundations (social, basic and clinical) of medical practice: Applies Science to Practice, Uses Evidence, Research Subject Content 1. Clinical Attachments - Medicine (1 x 5 weeks)
2. Clinical Attachments - Surgery (1 x 5 weeks), and
3. Clinical Attachments ? General Practice (1 x 5 weeks) and/or
4. Clinical Attachments ? Indigenous Health (1 x 5 weeks) and/or
5. Clinical Attachments ? Critical Care - which comprises Anaesthetics, Intensive Care & Emergency Medicine (attachments within attachments). ( 1 x 5 weeks)
6. Selective (1 x 5 weeks) for Rural Students only
7. Conference weeks x 2, including one in the last week of Teaching
8. 2 Scientific Streams ? on line learning packages appropriate to rotation (25 hours each)
9. A Reflective Journal Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance  S/U Y  Y  Professional Placement Performance  S/U Y  Y  Professional Placement Performance  S/U Y  Y  Professional Placement Performance  S/U Y  Y  Professional Placement Performance  S/U Y  Y  Quiz 1 hour S/U Y  Y  Viva Voce 2 hours S/U Y  Y  Essay 2 hours S/U Y  Y  Quiz 5 hours /fortnight S/U Y  Y  Professional Task Semester long S/U Y  Y  Professional Task Semester long S/U Y  Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Frank Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Frank Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)