Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1008 Introduction to Leisure and Recreation Theory Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401395 Coordinator Andrew Grainger Opens in new window Description Introduction to Leisure and Recreation Theory introduces students to key concepts in leisure and recreation, particularly as they relate to health and well-being. Students will learn about models and theories that assist them in understanding leisure behaviours and recreation practices from different perspectives. The various disciplinary approaches to leisure studies and practice are reviewed, and the multifaceted nature of leisure is explored. In particular, students are encouraged to identify, articulate, reflect upon, and value leisure in their own lives and the lives of others. School Health Sciences Discipline Rehabilitation Therapies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Incompatible Subjects REHA 2002 - Introduction to Leisure and Recreation Theory Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain key leisure and recreation theories and how they relate to social inclusion/exclusion and human rights in contemporary society;
Recognise the historical developments of leisure and recreation in Australia and elsewhere;
Describe the socio-cultural factors that influence leisure and recreation behaviour and experiences in contemporary society;
Identify the range of leisure services available in Australia and how these services fit within the wider political and social context;
Summarise the importance of leisure and recreation for individual and population health and wellbeing Subject Content 1. History of leisure
2. Disciplinary perspectives in leisure and recreation studies
3. Leisure Service Delivery Systems
4. Leisure and wellbeing
5. Leisure, social justice and human rights
6. Globalisation of Leisure Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Debate 2 x 500 words each 40 N Individual N  Quiz 5 x 20 questions 20 N Individual N  Case Study 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Arianne Reis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Andrew Grainger Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Health and Recreation, Minor (0243) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)