Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2038 Health Variations 2 - Chronic Conditions and Disability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401444 Coordinator Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window Description Health Variations 2 - Chronic Conditions and Disability utilises an evidence base to develop an understanding of pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions, and nursing care for people across the lifespan who experience chronic conditions and disability. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 2037 - Health Variations 1 - Introduction to Alterations in Health Equivalent Subjects NURS 2013 - Health Variations 2 - Chronic Illness and Disability Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing – WSU Online. or 4693 Bachelor of Nursing (Advanced) or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing (Graduate Entry) Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the causes, pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic procedures related to common chronic conditions
Identify the National Safety and Quality Care framework to plan appropriate, safe, effective, and evidence-based treatments when caring for people with common chronic conditions or persons with a disability.
Access and analyse the best available evidence, that includes research findings, related to common chronic conditions.
Describe strategies that promote a shared decision-making process in collaboration with carers, families, and people with common chronic conditions or disability
Develop evidence-based rationales for safe, person-centred care of people with chronic conditions or persons with a disability. Subject Content 1. Knowledge and application of the following concepts to inform professional nursing practice related to chronic conditions and disability affecting the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems: a. Cause: Risk factors
b. Clinical manifestations
c. Diagnosis
d. Pathophysiology
e. Treatment: Pharmacological and non-pharmacological
f. Nursing role and responsibilities: evidenced based practice by accessing and analysing the best available evidence, that includes research findings, for safe, quality practice 2. Concepts and principles of care related to chronicity and disability a. Rehabilitation and habilitation
b. Person-centred care
c. Shared decision-making Special Requirements Essential equipment Essential Equipment: Access to an internet enabled device is essential in order to be able to: access course materials; to participate in discussion groups; and to access additional resources provided by the lecturer during the session. See http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/currentstudents/current_students/services_and_facilities/uwsonline_student_support for further information. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1200 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 500 words 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 40 minutes x1 (30%) 30 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes x 2 (15% each) 30 N Individual Y  Report 1000 words 30 N Group Y  Case Study 1200 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kate O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Laura Mellish Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Health Support (exit only) (4799) Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4800) Nursing (NURS)