Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3009 Enterprise Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200920 Coordinator Md Munir Hossain Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to bring to life the knowledge gained during the students' study whilst applying it practically to diverse business contexts through work integrated learning. The internship will build on the comprehensive, coherent and connected knowledge gained in business specialisations to allow the students to explore and develop attributes required to be successful in contributing to outcomes in a business environment. Assessment of the subject is through a practical application of the learned theory into an assessable business report framework. Entry to this subject is by application.  Contact the subject coordinator for details. School Business Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3003 - Business Report Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2773 Bachelor of Business Administration, 2786 Bachelor of Business, 2787 Bachelor of Business (Advanced Business Leadership), 2788 Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws, 1818 Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Business, 1819 Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business, 1820 Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business, 3737 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business, 3738 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting), 4748 Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business, 3728 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours)/Bachelor of Business. Students must apply to study this subject before commencing a business internship, must have permission from the subject Coordinator and must have completed a minimum of 160 credit points prior to undertaking this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Display planning, organisational and time management skills related completing a business related project.
Research relevant literature on a specific business issue or project.
Synthesise theoretical knowledge and context specific information in relation to a specific business issue or project. Subject Content 1. Work integrated learning context.
2. Planning and organisational skills.
3. Time management.
4. Project management.
5. Business research.
6. Report writing.
7. Reflective writing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 750 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words (50%) and 10 minute video presentation (10%) 60 N Individual Y  Reflection 750 words 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sarah Duffy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sarah Duffy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Business (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (2804) Business and Management (BUSM)