Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 1008 Professional Pathways in Health Science Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400783 Coordinator Nicole Peel Opens in new window Description The subject introduces students to the health science workforce. It discusses professional issues, history and philosophy in health sciences as they relate to health promotion, health service management, therapeutic recreation and public health. In addition, this subject explores the career pathways for health science students, discusses the Australian health system, and examines the impacts of potential changes in the health system to a career in health science. This subject helps students define what area within health science they would like to examine and study in more detail. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 1004 - Foundations of Health Sciences LGYA 7157 - Foundation of Therapeutic Recreation PUBH 1009 - Professional Pathways in Health Science (UWSC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify major factors and ideas that underpin health promotion, public health, therapeutic recreation and health services management.
Examine the influence and relevance of early professional ideas on current concepts and practices in health science.
Describe the basic competencies required of health science professionals.
Apply critical and analytical reflective writing skills and explain their importance for the health science professional. Subject Content 1. Introduction to Health Science Professions
2. History of Health Science Professions
3. Professional Pathways in Health Science
4. Theoretical Frameworks, Systems and Models in Health Science
5. Developing Skills in Health Science
6. Communication in the Health Science Professions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract 300 words each, 45 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 20 N Group N  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Group N  Reflection 1,000 words 40 N Individual N  Report 10 weeks 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Health Management, Major (0170) Public Health (PUBH) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)