Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3045 Work Internship for Science Professionals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301259 Coordinator Michelle Ryan Opens in new window Description This subject will provide second and third year science students with an opportunity to undertake a short work placement within a professional organisation. The placement will allow students to observe and develop professional skills and behaviour and integrate theoretical and practical science knowledge and conventions into a real world setting. Students will find their own placement but may be aided by the Subject Coordinator. In consultation with the Subject Coordinator and the workplace supervisor, students will develop a Professional Task to accomplish during their placement. The Professional Task will enhance their workplace skills and highlight how their science knowledge can be adapted and integrated into a professional career. The subject will assure that students have job readiness. Students may need to travel to other campuses or locations to complete this subject. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 2032 Work Integrated Learning in Science Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points.  A placement agreement must be signed and submitted to the University before week 2 of 2H. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply theory learnt during their course to Industry problems.
Communicate the outcomes of their project to both a University and Industry audience.
Critically evaluate the contribution of personal attributes to the workplace
Show how the work placement has contributed to their job readiness. Subject Content Work Placement: 100 hours of supervised work experience which will include the following:
1.Integration of scientific theory with real world applications
2.Professional behaviour
3.Project planning, design and completion
4.Communication of project outcomes via a report and presentation Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites All students will be required to conduct Risk Assessments for the tasks they have outlined in their Professional Task. Depending on the nature of the organisation in which they are doing their placement there may be special legislative requirements. These will be identified during development of the Professional Task. The placement will not proceed if the student does not have the correct requirements at the time the placement is due to begin. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Report 2,000 - 3,000 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance Survey, 10-15 minutes to complete. Workplace supervisor to complete 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Michelle Ryan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)