Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3045 Intercultural Communication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101950 Coordinator Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop the communicative competence of students in intercultural contexts and raise their awareness of issues in the use of languages. It helps the students understand hidden socio-cultural dimensions and equips them with the knowledge and skills necessary for intercultural communication. It also prepares them to critically analyse linguistic and cultural differences around them, appreciate linguistic and cultural diversity, and integrate the subject contents into their future careers. The impact of intercultural communication is highlighted in a range of real-life sectors, such as second language teaching and learning, translation and interpreting services, international business, tourism, community services, and organisational communication. Lectures will be delivered in English and depending on demand, language-specific tutorials will be delivered in Arabic, Chinese, Indonesian and Japanese as well as English. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3046 - Intercultural Pragmatics Learning Outcomes Identify the connection between language and culture;
demonstrate awareness of linguistic and cultural factors that contribute to (un)successful intercultural communication;
examine cross-linguistic and cross-cultural differences in verbal and nonverbal communication;
use linguistic tools to analyse authentic spoken and written discourses from an intercultural perspective;
analyse linguistic and cultural diversities by examining cultural differences;
identify effective cross-communicative strategies in various contexts;
discuss and apply intercultural communication knowledge and skills to professions (e.g. translation and interpreting services, multicultural education, international business, tourism, community services, etc.). Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 120 mins total - (45 mins for online discussion, approx. 1,000 words; 30 mins for closed-ended questions, and 45 mins for open-ended questions 40 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Communication / Bachelor of International Studies (1932) Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of International Studies (1658) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business (1820) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Social Science (1807) Bachelor of Languages and Linguistics (1810) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) International English, Major (0018) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022) Linguistics, Minor (0022)