Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7050 Integrated Business Experience 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200831 Coordinator Laurel Jackson Opens in new window Description Successful professionals must be able to view issues and problems from multiple perspectives and be able to utilise a range of different skills to make appropriate decisions.  This subject introduces this multi-faceted approach to business by taking the knowledge gained in earlier subjects and of the real-world of business and applying this via case studies.  Students will be expected to work independently and in syndicate teams to solve common issues facing businesses and policy makers using critical, integrative and creative thinking.  It is recommended that this subject be the final subject within the graduate certificate. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Students enrolled in the 2765 Graduate Certificate of Business must have successfully completed 20 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and evaluate issues that impact on the successful management of an organisation;
Demonstrate the skills for critical and reflective thinking as part of strategic planning;
Apply knowledge from accounting, economic management, human resource management, operations and marketing perspectives to business;
Demonstrate the ability to develop practical solutions for contemporary issues facing business;
Reflect and review group and individual performance as part of decision making activities. Subject Content 1. Introduction to contemporary organisations and contexts
2. Overview of management decision making and policy making
3. Assess and analyse the financial issues facing organisations
4. Assess and analyse human resource management perspectives and impacts
5. Assess and analyse the value of customers and customer focus
6. Assess and analyse the management of operations
7. Undertake and evaluate competitive assessments
8. Understand the environmental context of management, including organisational culture, planning and change. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words equivalent 30 N Individual Y  Report 3,000 words and 15 minutes 40 N Group Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Nelson D'Souza Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Wade Azmy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus Quarter 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Daniel Townsend Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Rajul Joshi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Certificate in Business (2765) Master of Business Administration (2761) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782)