Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3017 Health Services Workforce Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400788 Coordinator Paul Preobrajensky Opens in new window Description NOTE: This subject is no longer on offer from Spring 2022. Students should enrol in BUSM 3080 Health Care Systems and Organisation Culture instead. 

This is a flexible learning unit looking at human resource management (HRM) as a strategic activity of health organisations especially as workforce shortages pose significant challenges to the health and aged care sectors. The workforce, with appropriate knowledge and expertise, is essential to the efficient and effective delivery of quality health services. Successful organisations shape the workforce to anticipate current and future directions and goals. Workforce planning is a crucial element of this approach and its success. School Health Sciences Discipline Public and Health Care Administration Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 3015 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain strategic and operational approaches to workforce planning and management in the national and local policy and planning framework for the health and the aged care industry.
Critically analyse organisational approaches to workforce planning and management.
Apply relevant information technology and HRIS in order to profile the workforce and monitor and review performance indicators.
Articulate skills in workforce management, including recruitment and retention, performance management and development, education and training, workforce redesign and employee relations, for the health and aged care industry. Subject Content 1. International and national policy and planning frameworks for the health workforce.
2. The Australian health care workforce ? overview, trends and issues.
3. Workforce planning and management at organisational level.
4. Developing the organisational workforce plan at strategic and operational levels.
5. Workforce planning processes.
6. Information technology and human resource information systems.
7. Human resources issues in the health and aged care industry.
8. Workforce reform and innovation.
9. Productivity of the health workforce. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words 35 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)