Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2022 Design Practice: Sustainable Manufacturing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301308 Coordinator James Berry Opens in new window Description Reflecting upon the life cycle of products and their components is important in understanding how decisions at the design level impact on people, resources, sustainable goals and how these contribute towards sustainability-oriented local and global value chains. This subject focuses on sustainable decision-making at the design level. It challenges and motivates students towards using sustainability principles to promote good Design for Disassembly (DfD) practices with linkages to material durability, and material reuse. Through a project-based approach, students will appraise manufacturing considerations for product design applying in succession Design for Manufacturing, Assembly and Disassembly (DfM, DfA, DfD) principles to their products and reflect on product lifecycle management best practice. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Assumed Knowledge The ability to communicate a design proposal using 2D or 3D computer software with annotations, and application of Australian Standards AS 1100 is desirable. Learning Outcomes Conduct a product review and re-design based on principles on DfM, DfA and DfD focusing on durability in regard for fit-for-purpose, and circular economy principles
Improve sustainable outcomes by applying Design for Manufacturing, Assembly and Disassembly techniques and approaches
Employ design methods that enhance the ease of manufacturing component assemblies and ease of disassembly
Effect positive sustainable change in design, manufacture, and end-of-life-cycle use of components supporting a sustainable systems approach Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 20 N Group Y  Applied Project 500 words (10%)
6 X A2 size concept development (20%) 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project Engineering drawings (15 pages) 30 N Individual Y  Poster A1 research poster 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact James Berry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Computer Aided Design (Mechanical), Concentration (0124) Design for Sustainability, Minor (0339) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Visualisation and Graphics, Major (0080)