Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7013 Clinical Supervision in Health Care Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401139 Coordinator Linda Gregory Opens in new window Description This subject aims to provide students with foundational knowledge related to clinical supervision. Clinical supervision is a supportive formal process which enables health care professionals to develop and improve practice, thus potentially improving outcomes for services and service users. Students will explore various models and theories which underpin clinical supervision, and the principles of effective supervision, including legal, ethical and professional considerations. Students will be encouraged to develop skills in self-awareness and reflective practice and to apply these skills to enhance professional growth and outcomes for service users. School Nursing & Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critically analyse models of Clinical Supervision.
2. Assess/Examine the differences between Clinical Supervision and other clinical support options.
3. Appraise the significance of ethical and legal principles, professional codes and standards to the practice of Clinical Supervision.
4. Critically analyse the role of Clinical Supervision in personal, professional and organisational development and the subsequent outcomes for people receiving health care.
5. Critically reflect on practice issues to demonstrate capacity for self-awareness and clinical problem-solving skills. Subject Content Module 1
Introduction to clinical supervision
Differentiating clinical supervision from other forms of clinical support
Module 2
Theoretical underpinnings
Models of clinical supervision
Practical approaches to the implementation of clinical supervision
Module 3
Principles of effective clinical supervision
Ethical considerations in clinical supervision
Legal issues in clinical supervision
Professional responsibilities in clinical supervision
Module 4
Understanding the nature of relationships
Developing skills for self-awareness and reflection
Reflective practice, modifying responses, and clinical problem solving Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1800 words 50 N Individual N  Viva Voce 10 mins  20 N Individual N  Reflection 1000 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Mental Health Nursing (4720) Graduate Diploma in Nursing Leadership (Mental Health) (exit only) (4746) Master of Mental Health Nursing (4719) Master of Nurse Practitioner (Mental Health) (4745) Nursing (NURS)