Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3103 Group Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102741 Coordinator Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to extend the employability, professional skills and networks of students. Every year, a range of options will be offered to students. These may involve activities as diverse as group research projects with existing available databases; simulation projects with ‘real world’ problems determined in partnership with an external agency or internal Western organisational subject; the development of a small-scale event that services a School objective and a community need; or a disciplinary  or inter-disciplinary capstone project. The common objective is the development of students’ skills in collaboration and team work through a focus on authentic tasks and problem-solving. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Must have successfully completed 160 credit points in enrolled program of study Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse a current community, organisational or professional need or problem.
Work effectively in teams to design and deliver a group project in response to an identified need or problem.
Apply advanced level disciplinary, or inter-disciplinary, skills and knowledges to "real world" problems.
Communicate project outcomes effectively in appropriate formats.
Reflect on their implementation of the task, its value to society, and their personal and professional knowledge and skill development. Subject Content Identification and analysis of a contemporary problem, or challenge, suitable for a semester-long group project.
The design and implementation of a semester long group project.
Communication of the project outcomes in appropriate formats.
Reflection on the group process and outcomes of the project.
Self-reflection on the roles undertaken, and the personal and professional benefits of participation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 500 words 15 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words 30 N Group N  Presentation 20 minutes 25 N Group N  Report 1,500 words 30 N Group N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (1706) Bachelor of Arts (Dean's Scholars) (1655) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) Dean's Scholars (1822) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) Dean's Scholars (1823) Bachelor of Communication / Bachelor of International Studies (1932) Bachelor of International Studies (1658) Bachelor of International Studies (Dean's Scholars) (1739) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business (1820) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Social Science (1807) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (6005) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)