Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3053 Crime Scene Investigation Credit Points 10 Coordinator Robert Ebeyan Opens in new window Description A substantial amount of forensic evidence used in the prosecution of criminal cases is derived from crime scenes. It is therefore critical that forensic practitioners understand appropriate crime scene investigation procedures for dealing with forensic evidence at the scene, and that they can apply these procedures in a practical manner during investigations. This subject will explore the practical aspects of crime scene investigation including scene preservation and documentation, scene searching and detection of forensic evidence as well as evidence enhancement and collection. Professional practices for maintaining evidence integrity and continuity will also be implemented. In additional to the practical components of this subject, a range of specialised crime scene investigation sub-disciplines will also be discussed along with crime scene legislation and the role of the crime scene investigator in court. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1003 Equivalent Subjects NATS 2010 Incompatible Subjects NATS 2014 Restrictions 100 credit points must be completed before students can enroll in this subject. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Integrate critical decision-making in the crime scene investigation process based on scene circumstances
Apply practical techniques for the detection, enhancement and collection of forensic evidence and documentation at crime scenes
Apply professional practice for maintaining evidence integrity and continuity at crime scenes 
Demonstrate a critical understanding of specialised crime scene investigation sub-disciplines, crime scene legislation and the role of the crime scene investigator in court Subject Content Crime scene investigation in simulated crime scenes
Professional decision-making at crime scenes influenced by scene circumstances
Professional practices for scene documentation and maintaining evidence integrity and continuity
Practical skills in detection, enhancement and collection of forensic evidence at crime scenes
Theory of specialised crime scene investigation sub-disciplines
Theory of crime scene legislation and the role of the crime scene investigator in court Special Requirements Essential equipment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1000 words 25 N Group/Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Simulation 1500 words 45 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Sutton, R & Trueman, K (2016) Crime Scene Management: Scene Specific Methods. 2nd ed. New York: Wiley. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Robert Ebeyan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)