Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1023 The Individual in Society (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700051 Coordinator Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the main theoretical perspectives for understanding the 'individual in society', including: humanistic, biological, cognitive, behavioural and socio-cultural explanations of individual behaviour.  These perspectives are further understood through application of the 'levels of analysis' framework.  The content then moves on to social psychology and covers topics such as: self and identity, attitudes and attitude change, conformity and obedience, prejudice and discrimination, aggression, pro-social behaviour and attraction and close relationships. Students explore the relevance of these topics to everyday life and contemporary issues. School Social Sciences Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 0001 (Diploma of Criminal and Community Justice Extended only) Equivalent Subjects BEHV 1021 - The Individual in Society Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in Extended Diploma College programs must have passed 40 credit points of the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject.
Students enrolled in Integrated Diploma/Bachelor programs must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the major perspectives in psychology and key social psychological theories and concepts;
Summarise levels of analysis and selected social psychological theories and concepts;
Apply key theories and concepts to everyday life and contemporary issues. Subject Content Major perspectives in psychology.
Levels of analysis framework.
Self and identity.
Attitudes and attitude change.
Prejudice and discrimination and inter-group behaviour.
Social influence.
Aggression and pro-social behaviour.
Attraction and close relationships.
Language, communication and culture. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 750 words  25 N Individual N  Reflection 750 words 20 N Individual N  Reflection 1250 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz 50 Multiple Choice Questions with a 2 hour time limit 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Michelle Dadamo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice (exit only) (7032) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) (exit only) (7167) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047)