Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 5001 Child and Family Health Practice: Supporting Growth and Development Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anne Marks Opens in new window Description This subject provides the student with knowledge of the theories of child development and the foundational knowledge and skills to be applied in the screening, surveillance and promotion of health and well-being of young children and families. This includes current immunisation schedules and use of evidence-based developmental screening tools. Content will focus on the normal physical, social and emotional growth and development of young children (0-5 years). The importance of the early years in brain development including infant-parent attachment will be linked to an exploration of child behaviour, sleep and settling, play and safety issues. The child and family health nurses’ role in supporting families experiencing infant sleep and settling difficulties and behaviour problems will be addressed. The knowledge gained in this subject will be consolidated through virtual clinical placement. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mothercraft Nursing and Family and Child Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 7009 - Child and Family Health Practice Supporting Growth and Development Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4713 Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane), 4714 Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) or 4715 Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane). Assumed Knowledge Students require basic knowledge of infant and child health at an undergraduate level, augmented with clinical experience as a general Registered Nurse or Registered Midwife. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critique the theories of child development and maternal /parent–infant attachment, applicable to child and family health practice.
Evaluate a child assessment using clinical judgement and evidence-based screening tools with consideration of parental concerns. 
Discuss how child and family community factors influence global child development and safe environments for children.
Synthesise evidence of contemporary issues for parents and children that impact promoting care and environments for children.
Communicate and collaborate appropriately, in traditional and digital, personal, and professional environments. Subject Content Module 1 - Child Growth and development Module 2 - Assessment and screening for growth and development Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 10-minute video recording (20%) and 1500 word case study (40%) 60 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 20 hours S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Anne Marks Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4715) Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Nursing (NURS)