Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3030 TESOL Placement Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102478 Coordinator Ping Yang Opens in new window Description This subject provides students an opportunity to undertake a professional practice subject which consists of an internship in an English language teaching organisation for students of TESOL. It involves participation in the various aspects of the work of the teaching organisation, including classroom observation, service learning, supervised English language teaching practice component, and volunteer tutoring either in Australia or overseas. In-context placement experience assists TESOL students' career development. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline English as a Second Language Teaching Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 2055 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: identify through observation various TESOL approaches in different teaching situations
demonstrate an understanding of successful TESOL teaching through observation of teaching and consultation with experienced teachers regarding their practice
analyse and meet students' learning materials and resources
adapt for use a variety of TESOL teaching materials and resources
plan, deliver and evaluate TESOL teaching and learning activities; and
demonstrate understanding of important non-teaching elements in language teaching and learning settings such as planning, classroom management, teacher collaboration, reflection of teaching materials design. Subject Content The placement builds on the knowledge and skills students gain in TESOL Teaching Methodology by situating it in differing TESOL settings such as ELICOS, AMEP, SEE, English for Specific Purposes, and general English skills. It involves in context experience with either teaching ESL in Australia or EFL overseas. The main components of the placement are:
1. Attending on-campus information sessions, meetings, group discussions, and presentations
2. Observation of classes in a range of English language teaching settings, consultation with teaching staff, team-teaching, and teaching of small withdrawal groups as appropriate in English language teaching organisations, and participation in all aspects of work in these organisations
3. Examination of commercial and teacher-produced teaching resources and materials, including computer assisted language learning resources, current curriculum approaches, and language assessment materials in the range of TESOL settings
4. Supervised practice teaching in the centre in which they are undertaking their internship or through an English language centre
5. Tutoring adult learners on a volunteer basis based on their learning needs
6. Practicum may be undertaken in the partner universities overseas depending on funding and placement availability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance varied 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)