Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7061 Leadership and Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102108 Coordinator Jacqueline Ward Opens in new window Description This subject explores the complex socio-political context of early childhood and school education.  It will focus on the knowledge and skills related to effective management, leadership and advocacy in the education sector. This subject will engage students in review of the legal, ethical and professional accountabilities of teachers.   Effective leadership and management theories, models and practices of quality educational providers will be evaluated.  Students will also examine strategies for advocacy and building partnerships with families and communities. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7073 Managing Child and Family Services Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the roles, functions and accountabilities of leaders and managers in educational settings.
Eavlaute theories of management and leadership and their application in educational settings.
Analyse the legal, professional and ethical dimensions of management practice in educational contexts.
Analyse the influence of management and leadership on quality outcomes in educational contexts.
Explore strategies for organisational planning and development including maintenance of effective administration, teamwork, staff management and development.  
Examine strategies to support the development of partnerships with families and communities and advocacy for children, families and the field of education. Subject Content The Australian policy context. 
 Legal and professional frameworks influencing teachers’ professional practice.
Theories of leadership and management. 
 The role of the leaders and managers in prior to school and educational contexts.
 Effective management processes and practices.
 Leading and working effectively with staff and colleagues.
 Advocacy as a professional responsibility in professional practice. 
Ethical dimensions of leadership and management. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Ward Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Ward Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jacqueline Ward Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)