Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3007 Destination Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101270 Coordinator Felicity Picken Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject is replaced by TOUR 3004 - Destination Management. Destination Management provides students with a fundamental understanding of the concepts in destination management.  This includes coordination of the destination in terms of the tourism industry's sectors, their relationship with each other and the challenges they face.  An appreciation of the importance of a destination's unique cultural, natural and economic attributes is developed from the viewpoint of the visitor and industry representatives.  The implications of organising urban spaces for the visitor experience and its influence on sustainability and competitiveness are explored. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse structure, roles and interrelationships of Destination Management Organisations (DMO) at various levels of operation.
Evaluate factors influencing destination management and marketing.
Undertake a destination resource analysis (Audit).
Evaluate destination marketing strategies based upon destination management objectives.
Critique destination management implementation.
Identify and describe opportunities, challenges and constraints affecting DMOs in formulating strategies. Subject Content Destination characteristics and destination profiling (critical review).
Coordination structures and principle players in the coordination of destination management (Government, Industry, NGO and Community).
Strategic and sustainable destination management (policy, practices and issues).
Destination marketing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 800 words 25 N Individual Y  Practical 500 words 30 N Group Y  Report 2,000 words 45 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Tourism (TOUR)