Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7162 Children’s Learning and Development Credit Points 10 Coordinator David Hawkins Opens in new window Description Early and middle childhood represent periods of rapid growth in children’s physical, cognitive, language, social, emotional, and moral development. This subject provides students with a comprehensive understanding of child development as well as a deep knowledge of learning theories and contemporary research evidence to evaluate implications for teaching children birth-12 years. In particular, students will develop an understanding of brain development and cognitive processes for children birth-12 years. Students will examine the critical role that family, culture, and community play in children’s development and evaluate the impact of their personal perspectives on their teaching practices. This subject enables students to understand and critique theory and research evidence about child development and learning theories to plan and implement evidence-based teaching pedagogy that is culturally and developmentally appropriate. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5 Years/Birth-12 Years), 1784 Master of Teaching (Birth – 5 years), 1773 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Teaching) or 1774 Master of Teaching (Early Childhood). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply an understanding of child development from conception to 12 years across physical, cognitive, language, social, emotional, and moral domains 
 Analyse the role of family, culture, and community on children’s development and implications for teaching and learning 
 Examine the research evidence about brain development and cognitive processes for children birth-12 years including neuromyths and implications for teaching and learning 
 Critique key learning theories to implement effective teaching and learning strategies for children birth-12 years 
 Appraise the research methodologies adopted to create knowledge about child development and learning theories to inform evidence-based teaching and learning strategies Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes x 4 50 N Individual N  Case Study 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact David Hawkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact David Hawkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years) (1784) Master of Teaching (Birth - 5 Years/Birth - 12 Years) (1783) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood and Primary) (1773) Master of Teaching (Early Childhood) (1774) Teacher Education (TEAC)