Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3020 Occupation and Mental Health Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400169 Coordinator Kristy Coxon Opens in new window Description This subject provides an understanding of the impact of major mental illnesses and disorders on occupational participation.  These illnesses/disorders are examined from varying perspectives including consumer, recovery, population health and biomedical.  Mental health legislation, policies, strategies and standards are examined in relation to clinical practice in this field.  Occupational therapy theory, assessments, interventions and outcomes are incorporated together with cross-disciplinary approaches and current evidence to provide a foundation for practice in mental health settings. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 3037 AND
BEHV 1014 AND
REHA 2006 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply recovery principles in occupational therapy practice and therapeutic relationships within mental health settings.
Analyse the DSM and its use as a classification system to understand identification and management of a range of common psychiatric diagnoses, drawing on literature from alternate perspectives.
Analyse the key principles and elements of the Mental Health Act and their application in mental health practice.
Explain and document the key elements of mental health and suicide risk assessment processes.
Apply the occupational therapy process, models of practice and clinical reasoning using an integrated evidence-based practice approach in a variety of mental health settings.
Analyse various aspects of the National Mental Health Strategy, Policy and Standards and their relationship to occupational therapy practice in mental health. Subject Content 1. Mental health perspectives and approaches (history, recovery and consumer participation, strengths perspective, trauma-informed practice and the DSM)
2. Understanding diagnosis, assessment, management and consumer experience of major mental illnesses/disorders.
3. Therapeutic relationships and recovery from mental illness/disorder.
4. Mental Health Act.
5. Mental Health Assessment and Suicide Risk Assessment.
6. Occupational therapy intervention and evidence-based practice in acute-care settings.
7. Occupational therapy intervention and evidence-based practice in community-care settings.
8. National policy and strategic context. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 Hour 20 N Individual Y  Practical 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kristy Coxon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)