Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 4004 Robotics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300056 Coordinator Gu Fang Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to develop an understanding of the basic concepts involved in Robotics. The kinematics, dynamics, control and sensing aspects in robotics will be introduced. In addition, the concepts of artificial intelligence (AI) and their applications in robotics will also be introduced. There will be considerable use of MATLAB in the subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) MECH 3004 Restrictions Successful completion of 200 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: analyse and develop mathematical models of a robot.
design suitable controllers for robot systems.
understand the use of sensors in robots.
appreciate the fundamental aspects of artificial neural networks and fuzzy logic systems.
undertake the design and implementation of artificial intelligence in robot applications.
Effectively communicate their results via professional report writing.
Work as a team to complete different learning tasks that include lab experiments and team assignments. Subject Content Robot kinematics and dynamics
Robot trajectory planning and control
Robot sensing
Artificial neural networks
Fuzzy logic control
Recent developments in robotics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 10 A4 pages each (Part A and C)
15 pages Report (Part B) 

About 350 words each page 
 50 N Group/Individual N  Practical 3 hours per practical 10 N Group/Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)