Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3015 Health Services Management Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400787 Coordinator Andrey Zheluk Opens in new window Description The subject begins with an overview of the complexity and variability of health services and provides an understanding of component organisations, federal and state policy issues and environmental factors including the role of the private sector and non-government organisations. The changing role of the health services manager and competencies required for effective managing are examined. Influences on organisations are reviewed, including structures, culture, power and politics. Various management functions are explored through 140 hours of placement e.g. strategic planning, performance management, people management including workplace relations, conflict resolution, resource management (financial and asset), risk management, health and safety in the workplace and quality assurance. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 2020 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7186 - Health Services Management 2 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Formulate a report on a health care services management issue involving both internal and external influences.
Apply effective management techniques to Health Service Management Cases and Experiences
Critically examine standards and practice guidelines being used as a basis for performance measurement in health services.
Communicate effectively and manage information in health care organisations.
Employ strategic planning, strategic management and the allocation of finances and resources, to make effective decisions for health organisations.
Critically analyse future developments in marketing health and sustainable service provision.
Apply professional competencies in workplace situations. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minute presentation and 1,000 word handout
 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 140 hour placement and 10 minute viva voce  10 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (6038)