Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 3016 Mathematics Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301379 Coordinator Volker Gebhardt Opens in new window Description In this subject, students can deepen or apply knowledge gained during their course and practise verbal and written presentation skills.  Students will carry out a project under the supervision of an academic staff member.  Assisted by their supervisor, students will define the problem to be studied and then acquire, develop and apply the appropriate theory or methodology.  They will prepare and present on a final report detailing theoretical results or methodology, an analysis and a discussion followed by an appropriate conclusion, as well as a literature review or a list of references as appropriate. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) None Equivalent Subjects MATH 3008 Quantitative Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in course 3778 Bachelor of Mathematics and must have completed 200 credit points before enrolling into the subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan and develop an investigative project.
Locate, identify and use information relevant to the problem being studied.
Undertake self-directed study relevant to the problem being investigated.
Undertake a theoretical and/or analytical investigation.
Develop a comprehensive research report in a logical, concise and professional manner.
Verbally present a project and its results to an audience. Subject Content There is no formal content definition for this subject, as the projects offered will vary according to the expertise and interests of academic staff and the research interests of students. Students will choose individual project topics in consultation with the unit coordinator and the supervising staff member. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 12-15 pages 10 N Group/Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Group/Individual Y  Report 20-40 pages 45 N Group/Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 25 N Group/Individual Y  Participation n/a 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Volker Gebhardt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Volker Gebhardt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Volker Gebhardt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Mathematics (3778) Mathematics (MATH)