Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7014 Construction Industry Practice A Credit Points 20 Coordinator Md Kamrul Hassan Opens in new window Description In this subject, students are placed with relevant employers to work on a variety of industry related tasks. Placements are structured for student engagement in professional work in their relevant field of study. Placement agencies ensure students are supervised by experienced practitioners, are mentored through site visits and work on projects in a professional capacity. Agreements with supervisors and clear communication lines are set to clarify student engagement and their involvement in meaningful professional tasks that contribute to an authentic learning experience. This subject aims to promote greater engagement with career planning and progression and hence improve job readiness. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Fire Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students must be enrolled in courses 3705 Master of Fire Safety Engineering 3703 Master of Building Surveying or 3708 Master of Bushfire Protection and have completed a minimum of 40 credit points before enrolling in this unit Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 3791 Graduate Diploma of Fire Safety Engineering, 3793 Graduate Diploma of Bushfire Protection, 3789 Graduate Diploma of Building Surveying, 3705 Master of Fire Safety Engineering, 3703 Master of Building Surveying, or 3708 Master of Bushfire Protection and have completed a minimum of 40 credit points before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes 1. Clearly justify your role and responsibilities in the workplace based on recognised national standards in fire safety engineering, building surveying or bushfire protection.
2. Apply workplace health and safety requirements to work sites.
3. Critically reflect on the practical application of your specialised expertise within the work environment, drawing from your personal observations.
4. Successfully develop competencies in line with recognised national standards in fire safety engineering, building surveying or bushfire protection.
5. Positively contribute to the tasks and projects within the workplace.
6. Communicate professionally on the impact of your work placement in shaping your career planning and preparedness for roles within the construction sector, as a fire safety engineer, building surveyor, or bushfire practitioner. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students will be required to undertake a Workplace Health and Safety Induction Course prior to accessing any construction sites and to provide a workplace health and safety risk assessment for a workplace inspection/investigation as part of the portfolio of activities at the conclusion of the subject. Bushfire protection students can obtain a basic firefighting qualification from a fire service as an alternative. In addition, a Workplace First-Aid is a requirement for those in the sector. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 - 20 minutes presentation 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio 20 – 30 minutes each week to complete the Portfolio of Activities;   2500 words 40 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Evaluation  report from Workplace Supervisor 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Md Kamrul Hassan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Md Kamrul Hassan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Master of Building Surveying (3703) Master of Bushfire Protection (3708) Master of Fire Safety Engineering (3705)