Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 0020 Skills for Health Science (WSTC) Credit Points 5 Legacy Code 900112 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to give students skills in health science to become successful independent reflective learners in health sciences.  It introduces students to a range of theories and concepts to facilitate the development of referencing conventions used in health science as well as practical skills and personal attitudes necessary for success in tertiary study and eLearning.  Emphasis is placed on developing the key competencies of inquiry - analysing, organising, researching and communicating information as well as problem solving. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 5cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions This subject is only available to College students enrolled in the Undergraduate Preparation Programs. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and apply independent learning strategies to demonstrate knowledge on a health topic.
Communicate effectively using critical reading and writing skills within a health context using APA referencing.
Use technology, and a range of eLearning skills in assessment tasks to demonstrate understanding of health topics.
Apply critical thinking, and analyse information using research skills, to make informed decisions.
Apply the process of reflection to learning experiences.
Demonstrate an understanding of the requirements for successful presentations and develop a visual representation of research using appropriate language style. Subject Content College policies
Plagiarism
APA Referencing
Reflective Learning
Independent Learning
Summarising
Paraphrasing
Analysing information
Communicating information Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 3 x 300 words

 30 N Individual N  Essay Part A: 400 words (15%)
Part B:1000 words (30%) 45 N Individual N  Presentation 7-10 minutes 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Despina Kamper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Charlise Bennett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Undergraduate Preparation Program – Nursing/Health Science (9030) University Foundation Studies Accelerated - 1 Term (WSTC) (9017)