Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7054 Professional Topic Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301374 Coordinator Anna Azabdaftari Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to allow high achieving students to comprehensively explore a relevant topic of interest to them, either through a minor supervised research project or an investigation of an issue directly related to their chosen discipline or a work internship in your chosen discipline.  This unit's flexible delivery offers a unique experience specific to each project and student.  Students in this subject will develop extensive skills through project-based learning essential for employment and/or higher degree studies. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in postgraduate program
Students must be completed at least 60 credit points of postgraduate study (level 5 or 6 or 7) in program 3749 (Master of Science) or other postgraduate program in Science Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Propose and investigate a topic area relevant to professional practice.
Critique peer-reviewed literature pertinent to the proposed topic and identify gaps in knowledge.
Design and implement a relevant professional project or a minor research project or industry based project.
Justify the results and conclusions of the project by oral and written communication.
Devise possible areas of inquiry for future research or development.
Reflect on indigenous perspectives as they relate to professional activities within a discipline of science Subject Content The design of this subject is flexible so that it can respond to the special needs of the student and their topic chosen for exploration. The learning activities and resources required will be individually negotiated between the student and subject coordinator. Subject content will include: Project-based learning relevant to individual professional goals and available expertise within industry, academia or other relevant body.
Critical literature appraisal on topics relevant to the student’s project.
Analysis of data, using appropriate statistical methods where required.
Critical evaluation of data to judge its significance and develop conclusions.
Report writing in the form of a scoping paper or research paper or industry project report.
Indigenous Australia – Cultural Awareness and Contribution to a discipline in science Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Report 4000 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 1000 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Reflection 1 hour 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture, Testamur Major (T108) Food Science, Testamur Major (T059) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Master of Science (3749) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068) Sustainable Water Futures, Testamur Major (T152)