Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1049 Understanding Visual Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101979 Coordinator Sebastian Byrne Opens in new window Description Visual media are a major feature of everyday life in contemporary society. The circulation of images shapes our sense of who we are individually and collectively; how we move through the world; and the possibilities that exist for enacting social change. This subject introduces students to the histories and theories of visual culture, from painting and photography, through cinema and television, to digital media, including social media and user-generated content. Students will gain practical skills in analyzing visual and audiovisual texts as well as a comprehensive understanding of the role of visual culture in the production and maintenance of power relations. These skills are crucial to engaging critically with contemporary culture. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise a range of visual, audio-visual and multi-media forms and genres.
Explain relevant key concepts and terminologies
Analyse a range of visual texts important to the study of visual culture, historical and contemporary art, and digital media forms
Demonstrate critical reading skills in the field of visual culture Subject Content This subject is modularised and teaching and content may vary slightly from semester to semester based upon staff teaching and research expertise. The subject will focus on different visual modes, such as painting, photography, screen cultures and digital cultures. The subject will examine concepts and methodologies of visual culture study and analysis, which may include
representation
perspective
composition
framing
modes of spectatorship
viewing practices
semiotics
meaning
ideology
genre Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Weekly quiz (run over 10 weeks total): best 8 of 10 will be counted for assessment 20 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Byrne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Byrne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Byrne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)