Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2005 Cost Benefit Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200924 Coordinator Neil Perry Opens in new window Description Students will learn and apply Cost Benefit Analysis, the most commonly used economic tool in business, consultancy and government organisations. The subject is a core subject in the Economics major but is open to all students who have a basic understanding of economics and a desire to improve their analytical skills and employability. At the completion of the subject, students will be able to explain the economic foundations of cost-benefit analysis and they will have experience with analysing, critically evaluating and developing a cost-benefit analysis for a specific proposal. Students will also consider risk analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BUSM 1006 OR
ECON 1011 OR
MKTG 1005 Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of economics. Learning Outcomes Explain the welfare economics foundation to cost-benefit analysis.
Critically evaluate a cost-benefit analysis.
Conduct a cost-benefit analysis.
Distinguish between cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis.
Explain the role of uncertainty and risk when evaluating proposals. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1500 words 25 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 words 25 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Neil Perry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Economics, Minor (0300) Economics, Testamur Major (T039) Economy and Markets, Major (0008) Innovation and Change, Major (0017) Water for Life, Minor (0311)