Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2017 Paramedic Practice 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401068 Coordinator Robin Pap Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the core competencies for paramedic practice in real world situations. These competencies will be developed through on-campus simulation learning, clinical placements with an emergency ambulance crew over a period of 3 weeks, and through an evidence-based exploration of paramedic practice. The core competencies include communication, documentation, reflections and professional ethical behaviour. In addition, students will practice patient assessment and supervised procedures appropriate to their level. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 1009 AND
NATS 1010 AND
NATS 1009 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 - Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Assumed Knowledge A fundamental understanding of paramedic patient assessment, including primary and secondary surveys (vital signs, history taking and physical examination). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Display effective communication skills, ethics and professionalism
2. Demonstrate consistent safe work practices
3. Execute basic paramedic skills in a real-world environment
4. Link patient presentations with appropriate treatment or management plans
5. Reflect on the pre-hospital environment, the patient’s experiences and their own learning needs
6. Evaluate appropriate, evidence-based pre-hospital management strategies
7. Identify and discuss current health issues
8. Demonstrate clinical reasoning relating to ECG interpretation, dysrhythmia management , parenteral drug administration, pain assessment and management, and spinal care. Subject Content Clinical placement in an emergency ambulance setting:
1. Inter-professional communication, ethics and professionalism
2. Safe work practices
3. Assessment and observation of real-world patients and health professionals
4. Basic skills and protocols associated with patient assessment and management
5. Supervised Interpretation of patient findings and Implementation of appropriate techniques Post clinical placement:
1. Reflection on clinical placement experience
2. Evidence based pre-hospital practice
3. Awareness of the Australian health sector
4. Basic ECG interpretation and dysrhythmia management
5. Parenteral drug administration
6. Pain physiology, pain assessment and management
7. Assessment and management of spinal injuries
8. Diagnostics and clinical assessment Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Multiple Choice - Quiz : 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Report N/A S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 750 words (Placement Learning Plan);  1000 words (Reflection)

 30 N Individual N  Practical Exam up to 30 minutes 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)