Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4041 Final Year Project 1 (UG Engineering) Credit Points 20 Description In this subject students develop the foundations for a year-long capstone project which may be either design or research oriented. Throughout the semester, students will develop their design, research and presentation skills under the supervision of academic or industry mentors as co-supervisors. This capstone project work develops a student’s ability to identify, plan, test, execute, document and report on an engineering project at a high level. The capstone project will be completed and finalised in “Final Year Project 2 (UG Engineering)”. Students completing the Final Year Project 1 and the Final Year Project 2 associated subjects will develop skills relevant to their future careers as engineers or as a pathway to higher degree studies. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Co-requisite(s) ENGR 3017 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3728 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours)/Bachelor of Business or 3740 Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) and have completed 200 credit points. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Evaluate the literature and its relevance to a specific area, which includes identifying the problems to be addressed, and their significance to engineering. 
Plan a research project demonstrating knowledge of the key steps in the research process.
Devise appropriate research methodology for investigating a specific research question.
Manage engineering research and/or design project that incorporates relevant processes and methodologies including WHS and risk management.
Communicate research and/or design work in an ethical and concise manner and in a range of formats reflective of scholarly and engineering professional practice.
Reflect on self-assessment and feedback for research and/or design project work. Subject Content Research skills
Technical presentation skills
Risk management
Project management
Engineering ethics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 1000 words S/U N Individual Y  Self-Assessment 30 minutes S/U N Individual Y  Proposal 3000 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 6000 words 65 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)