Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3049 Interpreting and Translation Professional Practicum (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101944 Coordinator Anita Byrnes Opens in new window Description This subject is a capstone subject for the relevant Interpreting and Translation award and is aimed at assisting students in their transition from interpreting and translation trainees to successful professional interpreters and translators. It provides students with the opportunity to participate in practical aspects of the Interpreting and/or Translation professions and related fields, as well as to undertake supervised practice in the workplace. Students will complete the practical work relevant to their field of specialisation, i.e., Interpreting, Translation or both. Together with LANG3067 Preparation for NAATI Certification UG it helps students prepare for the NAATI Certification test to be undertaken when they finish this course. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1013 OR
LANG 1017 Co-requisite(s) LANG 3003 OR
LANG 3067 AND
LANG 2014 OR
LANG 2047 OR
LANG 2023 OR
LANG 3065 OR
LANG 3060 OR
LANG 3083 Equivalent Subjects LANG 3048 - Interpreting Professional Practicum AND
LGYA 1671 - Translation Professional Practicum Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1519 Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation), 1692 Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars or 6041 Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) and must have successfully completed 60 credit points. Students should enrol in this subject in their final session of study. Assumed Knowledge In order to do the professional practice, students need to have demonstrated a minimum ability to interpret and/or translate, as they will be dealing with real life situations. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply interpreting and/or translation-specific skills and knowledge to the workplace
2. Identify the characteristics and structures of different interpreting and translation settings
3. Articulate and operate with the complexities of professional translation and interpreting Subject Content 1. Placement at an appropriate industry venue
2. Court attendance and observation
3. Group interpreting and translation practice within a simulated industry environment
4. Self-directed program involving the development of interpreting and translation skills
5. Submission of an observation journal Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task n/a S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anita Byrnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anita Byrnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)