Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2048 Communicating for Sustainability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102705 Coordinator Tanya Notley Opens in new window Description This subject will enable you to become an environmental sustainability leader by building your capacity to be a confident and effective communicator. Environmental sustainability is vital to human wellbeing and planetary health. Effective communication is required to bring about transformation at individual, organisational and societal scales. In this subject you will participate in three modules focused on the key ingredients required for communicating sustainability: strategy, design and storytelling. Weekly learning pods developed by industry and academic leaders are designed to demonstrate what has worked well in practice, across business, government, community and not-for-profit sectors. Assessments provide you with an opportunity to implement the models, concepts and ideas you've learnt during the weekly learning content. This subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points. Please note that this subject is recommended for all students, regardless of discipline. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse a sustainability need or problem in relation to the local context.
Create a communication strategy based on key insights.
Develop a clear sustainability narrative to guide communication and public engagement.
Design processes to effectively engage communities in strategies.
Present information, ideas and media clearly, convincingly and with confidence. Subject Content Module 1: Strategies for Communicating Sustainability
This module focuses on developing a communication strategy: how will your intervention create or contribute to change?
Module 2: Storytelling for Sustainable Futures
This module focuses on storytelling: whose voice is being centred? What kind of genre and format will be most effective for creating change?
Module 3: Designing Sustainable Initiatives
This module focuses on design processes and practices: how do you work collaboratively in an ethical way to design appropriate and effective sustainability-focused initiatives? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 750 - 1,000 words, plus recorded 1-2 minute pitch presentation 30 N Individual N  Applied Project video (approx 2 minutes duration), visual essay (800 words plus 5 images) OR campaign package (one page media release plus print advertisement or storyboard). 30 N Group/Individual N  Report 5-minute presentation plus 750-1,000 words, plus visual documentation 40 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tanya Notley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Communication (6007) Diploma in Design/Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (6011) Urban Evolution, Minor (0313)