Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2045 Introduction to Pharmacology Credit Points 10 Coordinator Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window Description This subject provides the fundamental knowledge in pharmacology required by students enrolled in the Pharmacology minor. The subject covers basic introduction to drugs, drug dosage forms and routes of drug administration, introducing students with fundamental principles and basic concepts of pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and understanding receptor theory of drug action. The subject covers the general principles of absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of drugs as well as the basic mechanisms of drug action at the biochemical and cellular levels on important drug targets. The subject also covers factors of individual variation to drugs, types of adverse drug reactions and types of drug interactions including common drug-drug and herb-drug interactions. The subject also introduces general concepts of neuropharmacology and neurohumoral transmission in the body. School Science Discipline Pharmacology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain the fundamental principles and basic concepts of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
Describe the various pharmacokinetic factors of absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion that modify drug action
Compare and contrast the chemical mediators and processes of neurohumoral transmission in the body
Explain the receptor theory of drug action and derive important drug parameters from dose-response curves
Describe important drug targets and receptor signal transduction processes in drug action at cellular and molecular level
Discuss the factors of individual variation to drugs, types of adverse drug reactions and drug interactions Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 2 hours/week 10 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz 10 quizzes. 30 min/quiz 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Shane Bullock & Elizabeth Manias (2022). Fundamentals of Pharmacology. 9th Edition: Pearson, Australia. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Srinivas Nammi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Pharmacology, Minor ( 0341)