Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3029 Podiatric Practice 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400930 Coordinator Zainab Al-Modhefer Opens in new window Description This subject will further develop students assessment skills encouraging the student to make the appropriate selection of techniques (biomechanical assessments) and to introduce the student to the diagnosis and management of a variety of simple foot pathologies. In this subject, the second of the four clinical practice units, students will participate in assessments of patients under supervision and continue with the management of foot pathologies. Clinical activities will be divided into five areas: General Medicine Clinic, Biomechanical Assessment Clinical, Tutorial, Clinical Therapies and External Clinical Placement. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3028
PUBH 2005
REHA 3027
REHA 4021 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7043 - Podiatric Practice 2 Restrictions Podiatry specific - students will be participating in patient assessment and management. It is essential that they have been able to demonstrate baseline competencies in patient assessment and infection control procedures. The podiatric practice subjects have been designed to be an integrated suite of subjects where one subject builds on the clinical competencies of the others. Assumed Knowledge Completion of all core subjects to this semester/ year of study. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply safe work practices including infection control and work health and safety in a clinical setting.
Complete medical records in accordance with the problem-oriented medical record (POMR) system, in a clinical setting.
Communicate in a clinical setting including referrals, letter writing, goal orientated management plans and patient education.
Apply theoretical knowledge of vascular, neurological and musculoskeletal systems to common foot pathologies in a clinical setting.
Identify and diagnose pathology in the foot and lower extremity including vascular, neurological, biomechanical and gait assessment.
Manage treatment of patients with common foot and lower extremity pathology.
Manufacture custom made functional orthotic devices using techniques including neutral casting, positive cast manufacture, and grinding in a safe manner. Subject Content This is the second of four clinical practice subjectss, the student will participate in patient assessment, diagnosis, and management. The activities will be divided into four areas:
 (a) UniClinic
 (b) Clinical Therapies
 (c) Clinical Tutorial
 (d) External Clinical Placement
 
(a)  UniClinic
 In these clinics, the student will further develop patient assessment, diagnosis, management, and clinical reasoning skills. The patients who attend these clinics will be new and ongoing patients who have basic foot problems, problems associated with an existing medical condition, and mechanical/functional problems. Appropriate assessments and management strategies will be carried out including manufacture of orthoses. The students will be supervised by registered practitioners.
 (b) Clinical Therapies
 This subject will continue to develop clinical therapies skills, focusing on the manufacture, clinical decision making and issues associated with cast, functional devices for patients. Students will engage in management and safety of a orthoses workshop.
 Content will include:
 Review of foot posture and foot function
 Review of neutral casting and preparation of the positive cast
 Discussion of positive casts
 Cast evaluation
 Manufacture of clinical devices – intrinsic and extrinsic posting, shell grinding
 Introduction to issuing and fitting orthotic devices
 Prefab and off the shelf devices
 Ethical and professional considerations with orthoses
 Assessment of footwear – footwear type, footwear assessment, shoe fitting
 (c) Clinical Tutorial
 Most clinical information will be presented during these sessions. Basic clinical skills and case presentation skills will be further practiced within the group.
 Content includes:
 Principles of new and review consultation
 Rationale for assessment selection
 Goal oriented management plans
 Health outcome concepts
 Education concepts and skills for general foot pathologies
 Footwear education concepts and skills
 Referral and response letter writing (d) External Clinical Placement
 There will be a placement for 5 days of clinical activities in an external clinical site.  The focus of this placement will be on developing assessment, diagnostic, management, and patient interaction skills in a real world clinical setting. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical N/A 40 N Individual N  Practical Exam 40 minutes 50 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 5 days of supervised external clinical placement S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task On-going assessment on all activities during semester 10 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Zainab Al-Modhefer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)