Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4009 Occupational Justice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401123 Coordinator Angus Lam Opens in new window Description This subject critically examines practice in the community with a focus on social inclusion and occupational justice.  Life perspectives of people experiencing occupational injustice are explored. Current and historical ideologies which underpin global and national legislation and policies on human rights are examined. The promotion of occupational participation through occupational therapy practice is outlined.  This subject challenges popular myths and stereotypes of people with disabilities. Issues such as de-institutionalisation, duty of care, dignity of risk, choice-making, rights and negligence are critiqued against legal, ethical and personal perspectives. This subject assists students develop critical thinking and reflection skills for practice. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3020 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3022 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7065 - Occupation and Social Participation Incompatible Subjects REHA 7010 - Occupational Justice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4711 - Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the occupational injustices experienced by individuals and/ or groups and hypothesise the potential impact on community membership and participation. 
Describe conceptual frameworks and ideologies which influence an individual’s social and community inclusion 
Reflect on personal and societal attitudes and beliefs about people who experience occupational injustice (eg disability, homelessness, refugees, Indigenous Australians)
Identify community inclusion opportunities and evaluate their potential to facilitate occupational engagement. 
Compare and contrast occupational therapy approaches used to facilitate occupational justice. 
Develop an occupational therapy strategy to enable occupational justice for a marginalised group within their local community or global context Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative Prerequisites Prior to enrolling in this unit, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form.  Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information.
Special Requirements
If students are visiting a NSW Health facility they will need to comply with the occupational screening and immunisation policy of NSW Health. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minute 30 N Group Y  Reflection 1000 words total (4x 250 words) 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Caroline Mills Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)