Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 1032 Introduction to Applied Science and Technology (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Grant Boyd Opens in new window Description In this subject, you will explore the science behind ground-breaking inventions that have revolutionised contemporary society and made it what it is today. You will delve into historic innovations, such as the Haber Process, which played a pivotal role in urbanisation, as well as contemporary marvels like the lithium-ion battery, fundamental to our technology-driven lifestyle. Additionally, you will answer the “big philosophical questions” associated with these inventions. For example, ‘Why did the cheap replacement lithium battery that I brought off the internet for my mobile phone or laptop explode on recharging?’ and ‘Why are foods and drinks, including my morning coffee, acidic?’. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify the key concepts and principles in electrochemistry, biochemistry, physical and general chemistry.
Apply key concepts and principles of chemistry to explain and examine real-world chemical processes.
Understand and apply techniques for the safe handling and disposal of chemical substances in the environment.
Effectively communicate chemical concepts to a range of audiences using appropriate scientific language, symbols, and diagrams. Subject Content Special Requirements Essential equipment Approved safety glasses, lab coat, enclosed shoes. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 x 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 300 words plus equations and diagrams 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 6 x 2 hour practicals including report. 6 reports - Max. 1000 words overall 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)