Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 2013 Soil Mechanics (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700245 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject is an introductory subject covering the use of soil, and the water in it, as an engineering material. It will provide students with a basic understanding of the physical and mechanical properties of soils, simple soil testing methods to characterise soil strength and deformation behaviour and how to apply basic techniques to assess the hydro-mechanical response of soils subjected to loading.Offerings of alternate subjects are dependent on there being sufficient student enrolment numbers. If enrolments are low, the College may cancel delivery of the alternate subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Civil Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1017 Equivalent Subjects CIVL 2011 - Soil Engineering CIVL 2012 - Soil Mechanics Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the concepts of soil mechanics
Apply soil mechanics concepts to soil engineering problems
Analyse the response of soil and the water in it when subjected to loading
Apply basic laboratory tests to measure the engineering properties of soils
Solve simple design problems in soil engineering Subject Content 1. Soil formation
2. Clay mineralogy
3. Soil classification
4. Soil compaction
5. Effective stress in soils
6. Flow of water in soils
7. Flow nets and the engineering effects of water movements
8. Consolidation and settlement
9. Stress increases in soils
10. Shear strength in soils
11. Lateral stresses in soils Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes each  15 N Individual N  Practical Equivalent to 1,500 words each 15 N Group/Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour  20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours  50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil, Testamur Major (T033)