Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 5007 Children’s Rights: Local and International Credit Points 10 Coordinator Meda Couzens Opens in new window Description Children’s Rights: Local and International provides students with the opportunity to critically analyse the rights of children at domestic and international level. Students will examine the rationale and the development of children’s rights as well as the international and the Australian legal framework for their protection. Selected topics discussed in more detail are juvenile justice; families and child protection; First Nations children and the law; the exploitation of children; access to justice and governance (domestic and international) and the rights of children. The subject develops multidisciplinary approaches to socio-legal issues and provides opportunities to apply analytical and research skills to special interest projects involving international and comparative legal materials. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7048 Criminal Law AND
LAWS 7057 Government and Public Law AND
LAWS 7027 Legal Philosophy and Methodology AND Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3089 Children’s Rights Local and International Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program Juris Doctor (2826) to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes Critically analyse the historical, moral and legal foundation of children’s rights 
Evaluate the domestic and international legal and institutional frameworks for the protection of the rights of children, including First Nations children
Critically review the multifaceted nature of law and policy relating to children’s rights, their connections with other areas of professional legal practice and the importance of multidisciplinary for their protection
Apply legal analysis and research skills to international and comparative material on children’s rights. Subject Content Development and theoretical aspects in relation to children’s rights
Introduction to the international framework for the protection of children’s rights (UN, regional systems, non-Western approaches)
Introduction to children’s rights protection in Australia (sources of children’s rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Australian law; main children’s rights challenges in Australia)
Children and criminal justice
Children, family and the state
The exploitation of children
Children and information technology
First Nations children and the law
Children and access to justice (domestic and international)
Governance (domestic and international) and the rights of children Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 25 N Group N  Essay 3000 words 45 N Individual N Structures that include subject Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)