Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3114 Changemakers and Entrepreneurship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800243 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description This subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. The subject supports students to successfully navigate innovation and entrepreneurship journeys by pushing boundaries, experimenting, learning from mistakes, and adapting to find new ways of approaching technical and social problems. In this subject, students will develop knowledge and skills in pitching and communicating solutions, creating material for crowdsourcing platforms and collaborating in multi-disciplinary teams to design solutions to contemporary problems affecting both local and global communities. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 3052 - Innovation Lab Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their course with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this unit. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Enrolment in the unit for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes Assess the need for innovation to address challenges in local and international communities.
Describe the main components in the innovation process and the entrepreneurial journey. 
Communicate the need for innovation and articulate solutions to address complex challenges.
Demonstrate global awareness by articulating innovative approaches to real-world problems aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Design feasible innovative strategies to address complex challenges by applying an innovative and entrepreneurial mindset and collaborating in cross-disciplinary teams Subject Content Types of Innovation.
Processes involved in creativity and innovation.
Entrepreneurship theories and entrepreneurship journeys for creative leadership.
Idea generation and validation. 
Pitching and crowdfunding platforms. 
Collaboration in cross-disciplinary teams.
Delivering innovative yet feasible solutions to complex problems. 
The resources/tools/infrastructure that underpin innovation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words
 20 N Individual N  Presentation 7 minutes 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,200 words
 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words
 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Creative Living for Cultural Wellbeing, Minor (0334) Critical and Systems Thinking, Minor (0287) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)