Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 1004 Occupational Therapy Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400907 Coordinator Kristy Coxon Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the principles of professional practice. Students will be provided with learning opportunities through a variety of experiential and community engagement activities that will begin to develop their skills and competence.  Professional competencies addressed include communication, documentation, reflection and professional and ethical behaviour. A professional practice placement is incorporated in this subject. Students will complete practice hours in accordance with World Federation of Occupational Therapy accreditation guidelines. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2006 People Environments and Occupations COMM 1007 Communication in Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy. This subject is profession-specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of safe work practices to occupational therapy work contexts
Educate others on a task appropriate to professional practice
Describe the role of the occupational therapist in language suitable for a client
Conduct an interview and record findings in a format appropriate for entry into health records
Demonstrate professional behaviours and self management in a practice setting
Reflect on their practice experience using a structured format Subject Content 1. Professional attitudes and behaviour
2. Professional roles and relationships
3. Professional communication skills
4. Legislative requirements related to practice
5. Professional ethics
6. Preparation for practice context
7. Safe work practices
8. Equipment used by occupational therapist Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1600 words 40 N Individual Y  Case Study 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 40 hours practice placement 10 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)