Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 2005 Electronics (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700242 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject further develops skills in the analysis, design, practical implementation and testing of the main analogue electronic circuits.  Topics covered are: semiconductor diodes and their applications, Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJT), Field Effect Transistors (FET), analysis of BJT and FET, design of discrete operational amplifiers and operational amplifier characteristics and circuit configurations.Offerings of alternate subjects are dependent on there being sufficient student enrolment numbers. If enrolments are low, the College may cancel delivery of the alternate subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 1004 Equivalent Subjects ELEC 2004 - Electronics Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering Assumed Knowledge Vibrations and wave phenomena; photoelectric effect, atomic structure and periodic table, electricity and magnetism. Learning Outcomes Explain the basic structure and mode of operation of pn junction diode.
Conduct an AC and DC analysis of a circuit with pn junction diode.
Explain the basic structure and mode of operations of BJT, MOSFET transistors and operational amplifiers.
Conduct an AC and DC analysis of single-stage amplifying circuits using BJT, MOSFET transistors and operational amplifiers.
Design simple electronic circuits for a given specification and application.
Use Electronics Workbench as a tool to simulate and understand electronic circuits. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 12 hours 15 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes each 10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour +30 min for online submission 25 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam Part 1: 2 hours + 30 min for online submission
Part 2: 20 minutes per student 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)