Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 1018 Visual Storytelling Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101921 Coordinator Janet Saunders Opens in new window Description Visual storytelling is increasingly being used in a variety of contexts including websites, magazines, advertising, business and public affairs, exhibitions and events and television, often working across a number of platforms at the same time as requiring responsive design approaches for a diversity of viewing experiences. With access to increasing amounts and types of data, professional communicators need to be able to extract meaning to connect with a variety of different audiences in creative, dynamic, and emotional ways. This subject introduces students to story archetypes, structure and flow. It encourages metaphorical and anagogical storytelling using appropriation making reference to genre and research. This practical subject explores a range of traditional hands-on techniques and digital software commonly used across the communications sector.  Students are encouraged to explore and develop their own mark and image making skills aimed at specific target audiences and communication contexts. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 2353 - Design Principles 2D3D DESN 1005 - Design Thinking DESN 1019 - Visual Storytelling (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge Basic written English skills. Learning Outcomes Articulate understanding of the role of visual storytelling for exploring the relationship between content and context.
Evaluate visual communication contexts to identify principles and structures for visual storytelling.
Apply visual storytelling approaches using a range of digital media applications.
Apply visual approaches to generate relevant findings as storytelling outcomes for given briefs. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1.3 Equivalent to 30-60 secs or a minimum of 12 key frames plus portfolio 45 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2.3 Equivalent to 2 x A4 or 1 x A3 format with minimum of 12 frames plus portfolio.  45 N Individual Y  Quiz Equivalent to 50 words - 5 quizzes with 10 multiple choice over 14 weeks 10 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Jacki Montgomery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Janet Saunders Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 3 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Jacki Montgomery Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Game Design, Minor (0090) Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Graphic and Design (DESN) Other information Technology (INFO)