Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7005 Child Clinical Psychology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101210 Coordinator Kim Dilati Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the nature, assessment and treatment of psychological disorders in children and adolescents. Students will examine the diagnostic classification, epidemiology and aetiology of a range of psychological problems in childhood and adolescence, including anxiety disorders, mood disorders, behavioural disorders, trauma and stressor-related disorders, eating disorders, learning disabilities, and attention-deficit disorder. The theoretical and empirical foundations of a range of cognitive and behavioural techniques will be discussed along with a number of major conceptual and practical issues in the treatment of psychological disorders in childhood and adolescence, including cultural and inter-professional contexts. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0486 - Clinical Problems in Children and Adolescents BEHV 7004 - Assessment Psychological Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology or 1814 Master of Professional Psychology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the characteristics of the common emotional and behavioural disorders in childhood and adolescence (APAC GA: 3.5, 4.2.1i, 4.2.1ii, 4.2.1iii & 4.2.2i).
Apply reliable and valid and culturally responsive methods of assessing and writing reports for children and adolescents with psychological disorders (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.6, 3.8, 4.2.1iii, 4.2.2ii, 4.2.2iii).
Implement and evaluate psychological interventions, including cognitive and behavioural therapies, for a range of emotional and behavioural disorders in childhood and adolescence reflecting upon the appropriate treatment modifications required for each clinical population and including working with the unique attributes of the person within their cultural context (including with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians) (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.7, 4.2.2iii, 4.2.2iv, 4.2.3i & 4.2.3ii).
Critically evaluate research concerning the efficacy of psychological therapies with children and adolescents (APAC GA: 3.16 & 4.2.3iv).
Demonstrate an applied understanding of the role of a psychologist in an inter-professional context in the assessment and treatment of child and adolescent clinical presentations (APAC GA: 3.10, 3.12 & 4.2.3iii). Subject Content Theoretical and empirical foundations of child psychopathology
Assessment of psychopathology in childhood
Nature and epidemiology of common childhood disorders
The development, implementation and evaluation of psychological interventions, including cognitive and behavioural therapies, for a range of psychological disorders in childhood and adolescence.
Cultural responsiveness in psychological assessment and interventions with children and families, including with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians.
The role and contribution of a psychologist within an inter-professional treatment context. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 2,500 words 50 Y Individual Y  Case Study 1,500 words 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kim Dilati Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kim Dilati Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812) Master of Professional Psychology (1814)