Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3118 Indigenous Cultures: A Global Perspective Credit Points 10 Coordinator Donna James Opens in new window Description Drawing on global case studies, this subject aims to introduce students to some of the pressing socio-cultural issues facing indigenous peoples around the world.  The subject examines the complex relationships between globalisation, colonialism and post-colonialism and contemporary indigenous cultures and identities.  It draws attention to the way in which issues of representation, cultural autonomy, cultural commodification, development and human rights play out with respect to indigenous peoples’ lives.  More specifically, the subject interrogates the power relations and politics central to many of these issues and examines the nature of contemporary indigenous and non-indigenous interactions, particularly in the contexts of tourism and heritage, the cultural industries, the environment, development and urbanisation. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 3016 - Indigenous Cultures A Global Perspective Learning Outcomes Explain how globalisation has complexified indigenous cultural identities.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of the historical and contemporary relationships between indigenous and non-indigenous peoples and cultures by discussing the theories and concepts of colonialism, postcolonialism, autonomy, participatory methods and self-determination.
Critically reflect on the issues of cultural representation and cultural consumption.
Analyse how politics, power, ethics, ontology and epistemology influence the treatment of indigenous peoples in one of the following contexts: tourism and heritage, the cultural industries, land management and the natural environment, and development.
Use online technologies to organise, share and communicate Indigenous-related topics and issues. Subject Content Concepts of indigeneity in the changing world
Theories of colonialism and postcolonialism
Autonomy, self-determination and indigenous politics
Globalisation and indigenous identities and cultures
The representation and consumption of indigenous cultures
Mapping indigenous cultural landscape/s
Power, land rights, displacement and indigenous protected areas
Ethics, tourism, and cultural and environmental heritage
Sustainability, development and ethics in practice
Ethnography, travel and the Other Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Poster Collection of images, commentary etc (500 words) 25 N Individual N  Reflection 1,000 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Donna James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Donna James Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (1916) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Heritage and Tourism, Minor (0012) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)