Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1022 Working with Cultural Differences Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101664 Coordinator Angelica Ojinnaka Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to develop student awareness of culture, identity and difference in the Australian context. Students are introduced to and expected to develop a working knowledge of the concepts of culture, identity, power relations, whiteness and difference. From these theoretical bases, issues of identity and difference and power relations are explored in the Australian context with particular focus on Indigenous/non-Indigenous relations and multiculturalism. In addition, the effects of socially constructed differences of race, gender, class, and sexuality are explored. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CEDS 2002 - Working with Cultural Differences in Educational Settings (UG) CULT 1023 - Working with Cultural Differences (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate current theories and concepts of culture, identity, difference and power.
Identify the historical and social contexts of cultural differences and power relations in Australia through personal narratives and readings.
Explain the concept of whiteness as a structure of authority and as a location of identity.
Discuss the history of Indigenous/non-Indigenous relations in Australia and its impact for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders today.
Evaluate different discourses and practices of multiculturalism in recent Australian history. Subject Content Concepts of culture, cultural difference and identity
Narratives of identities and difference
Understanding of power and relations of power and positioning within cultural differences
Whiteness as a structure of authority and as a location of identity
Historical and social perspectives on cultural differences and power relations in Australia
Impacts of the history of Indigenous/non-Indigenous relations in Australia
Discourses of multiculturalism in recent Australian history
Markers of difference such as gender, race, class, sexuality, location in the Australian context
Exploration of good practice, policy and research on working with cultural differences Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 800 words 20 N Individual N  Case Study 1,200 words 40 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Angelica Ojinnaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Angelica Ojinnaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Angelica Ojinnaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Bachelor of Youth Work (1933) Child and Community, Major (0045) Child and Community, Minor (0045) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Disability Studies, Major (0252) Other Society and Culture (CULT)