Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 3023 Social Psychology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101683 Coordinator Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window Description Social psychology is the study of human behaviour and mental processes in their social context. Social psychology examines social behaviour and social thinking using scientific psychological research methods. This subject considers both classic and recent theories, research and applications in core areas of social psychology such as: attitudes, stereotyping and prejudice, social cognition, group processes, cross-cultural and Indigenous Australian psychology, and social influence. Emphasis is placed upon the role of contemporary research and theory in increasing our understanding of social phenomena and the relevance of this to everyday life. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 2006 Equivalent Subjects BEHV 2013 - Social and Developmental Psychology Restrictions Note that only students enrolled at WSU Online may register in the WSU Online subjects offered at that location. The online version of this subject is only available to students enrolled in 1793 Bachelor of Science, Criminology and Psychological Studies. Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of core concepts of personality, social and developmental psychology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Display knowledge of contemporary theories and methodologies used in the study of social cognition and social behaviour, and explain a broad range of psychological research studies relevant to social behaviour and cognition.
Evaluate social psychology theories from cross-cultural and Indigenous Australian perspectives.
Apply knowledge of psychological principles and research methodologies to the study of social behaviour and cognition.
Critically evaluate empirical studies and theoretical positions in social psychology.
Communicate the results and methods of social psychological research using APA structure and formatting conventions.
Apply social psychological concepts to real-life events. Subject Content Introduction to Social Psychology
Social cognition
Perceiving others
The Self
Attitudes and Attitude Change
Persuasion and Social Influence
Stereotypes, Prejudice, and Discrimination
Intergroup Relations
Aggression
Prosocial Behaviour Lecturer
Interpersonal Attraction and Close Relationships
Cross-cultural and Indigenous Australian Psychology Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 minutes 10 N Individual N  Quiz 60 minutes total (3 x 20 minutes) 15 N Individual N  Proposal 800 words 10 N Individual N  Proposal 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Final Exam 90 minutes 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Cindy Harmon-Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma of Psychological Studies (1630) Psychological Studies, Major (0029) Psychological Studies, Minor (0029) Psychology, Major (0001) Psychology, Testamur Major (T133)