Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3094 War and Society in the Twentieth Century Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101993 Coordinator Bridget Brooklyn Opens in new window Description This subject explores the social and cultural history of warfare in the twentieth century, with a particular emphasis on the experience of 'ordinary' men and women during the First and Second World Wars. Drawing on case studies and scholarship from Australia, Britain and the United States, students will examine a diverse range of topics and themes, including the politics of gender, class and race in wartime. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 2060 - War and Society 20th Century Australia Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the major themes of the social and cultural history of warfare in the twentieth century.
Discuss relevant case studies drawn from Australian, British and American examples.
Analyse the major conflicts of the twentieth century.
Interpret and critically engage with historical scholarship. Subject Content Topics may include The experience of combat and its social and cultural ramifications.
Gender, sexuality and war.
Race and ethnicity in wartime.
The politics of class on active service and on the home-front.
Repatriation and reintegration at war's end.
The experience of veterans.
Memorialisation and the commemoration of wars and the war dead. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Summer The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay: Extended Writing Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual   Log/Workbook 1,000 words 35 N Individual   Quiz 4 quizzes 15 N Individual Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Bridget Brooklyn Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)