Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 3012 Policing Leaders Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101969 Coordinator Kate Linklater Opens in new window Description The Policing Leaders Internship offers work experience to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Policing (Leadership) and Bachelor of Policing degrees within the School of Social Sciences. Internships can take place in a range of policing organisations such as the NSW Police Force, Police Association of NSW, and other member organisations of the Police Federation of Australia. Internship placements will require students to utilise a range of social science skills obtained throughout the Bachelor of Policing (Leadership) and Bachelor of Policing degree programs. This practical work schedule is supported by a reading program that examines different approaches to the study of policing organisations (their structures, functions and policies) and links these issues to the internship experience. The internship provides work at a host organisation for fourteen full days, totalling 105 hours. Typically, this internship component will be realised as one day per week for fourteen weeks, however an alternative spread of work may be agreed between the organisation, the student, and the subject coordinator. The subject is only offered in the Spring session of Level 3, and is worth 10 subjects of credit, which will be recorded as an elective on your degree transcript. There is only one lecture for this subject. School Social Sciences Discipline Police Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) JUST 3006 AND
CULT 3001 Restrictions (1). Students must be enrolled in 1734 Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program), 1844/1662 Bachelor of Policing or 6029 Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing and have passed 80 credits at Level 1 and 60 credits at Level 2. (2). Students will be required to have achieved a GPA of 5 for all Level 1 and Level 2 core subjects of their degree. Internship placements are limited to 20 and will be prioritised for Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) students, for whom this subject is core. Any remaining internships will then be offered to Bachelor of Policing students who meet the two prerequisites. In the case of more than 20 students in 1734 meeting these requirements, students will be allocated based on their GPA ranking. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise the working environments of contemporary policing organisations
Follow direction from police practitioners to undertake applied tasks
Critically reflect on the application of their individual ethics and professional practice
Evaluate the important policy and practice contexts of contemporary policing organisations
Apply their academic knowledge to the practice contexts of contemporary policing organisations
Synthesise the research, policy and practice evidence related to a critical issue considered during their placement Subject Content 1. Understanding Management theory within policing practice
2. Understanding Organisational theory within policing practice
3. To gain practical experience within a relevant policing organisation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance N/A 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) Hybrid Subject Contact Kate Linklater Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool Hybrid Subject Contact Kate Linklater Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST)