Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 2005 Computer Networking (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300946 Coordinator Nabil Giweli Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to computer systems networking. It covers basic networking technologies, Ethernet fundamentals, ISO OSI model, routing, switching and subnetting, the Internet architecture, networking protocols including TCP/IP, important OSI layer 2 and 3 networking device fundamentals, basic network management and security issues. This subject is also the first of three units, which will prepare students for industry based networking certification (CCNA). Students in this advanced subject will be required to undertake individual assessment activities demonstrating a high level of technical and applied theoretical competency. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Networks and Communications Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects COMP 2007 - Computer Networking Fundamentals LGYA 5739 - Applied Data Communications and Networking COMP 2004 - Computer Networking Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3684 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced), 3685 Bachelor of Computing (Information Systems) Advanced, 3688 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced or 3745 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business. Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of computer architecture, binary and hexadecimal numbering systems, and programming principles. A working knowledge of the World Wide Web. Learning Outcomes Examine the fundamental concepts and protocols for computer networking and internetworking.
Investigate and analyse the Internet architecture.
Analyse the significance of the OSI and TCP/IP models, protocol stacks and their operation in computer networks.
Evaluate modern technologies in computer networking.
Investigate the functions of important OSI layer 2 and OSI layer 3 networking devices.
Assess the management practices and security requirements of computer networks.
Construct, test and troubleshoot a LAN design with introduced connectivity errors.
Subnet a enterprise network given design criteria. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 hours per week 20 N Group Y  Practical Exam 45 minute practical test 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour in class test 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Nabil Giweli Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Nabil Giweli Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nabil Giweli Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Computer Science (COMP) Other information Technology (INFO)