Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7024 Applied Vascular Sonography Credit Points 10 Coordinator Donna Oomens Opens in new window Description This subject aims to provide students with adequate knowledge and skills to practice competently and safely as vascular sonographers. Students will learn about more specialised diseases and how to detect them using ultrasound and other imaging modalities. Students will start contributing to a wider sonographic practice by conducting a case project and presenting the report to the professional audience. The university library’s vast teaching and research resources will provide an important means for facilitating learning in this subject. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7013 - Practice of Vascular Sonography 3 Co-requisite(s) RADI 7014 - Practice of Vascular Sonography 4 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4765 Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Differentiate the unique characteristics of arterio-venous fistulae/grafts to ensure accurate assessment
2. Appraise the principles of transplant and endovascular surgery to understand the role sonographers play pre- and post-procedure 
3. Critique new and emerging technologies and their application in vascular sonography practice to ensure that currency of knowledge is maintained
4. Reflect on personal sonography practice to plan for further professional development
5. Collaborate with vascular sonographers and other health professionals to enhance  practice and development. Subject Content Module 1: Arteriovenous Sonography
I. Principles of Access
II. Anatomy
III. Pathology
IV. Protocol
V. Application
Module 2: Interacting with transplant and endovascular surgery
I. Principles of transplant surgery
II. Application
III. Endovascular principles
IV. Application 
Module 3: Applied Professional Practice
I. Access sonography
II. Theatre protocols
III. Contrast enhanced ultrasound
IV. Transitioning to qualification Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the vascular ultrasonography course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in states other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be competed if, and when required). 
New Zealand students will need to have completed a MRTB approved Māori Competency unit. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 40 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words plus images 20 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 30 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography (4765) Radiography (RADI)