Academic Handbook Current Edition CHEM 2001 Analytical Chemistry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300832 Coordinator Andrew Shalliker Opens in new window Description This subject provides insight into both classical methods of analytical analysis and an introduction to modern instrumental methods of analysis. Specifically, the classical methods of analysis include volumetric and gravimetric methods, while the modern instrumental methods include separation techniques and spectroscopy. The role of spreadsheets in data analysis and presentation is discussed and applied in the laboratory program. School Science Discipline Chemical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) CHEM 1008 Introductory Chemistry Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain how analysis is both qualitative and quantitative.
Explain the importance of the correct use of analytical tools in quantitative analysis.
Apply appropriate numerical skills and use spreadsheets in order to improve the analysis of chemical information, to present the data in a table, graph etc. appropriate for scientific literature.
Perform experimental tasks on volumetric methods of analysis with attention to Occupational Health and Safety and risk assessments and to undertake the appropriate calculations to determine content.
Perform gravimetric methods of analysis and appropriate calculations to determine the concentration of chemical species present in a sample.
Explain the principles of separation and spectroscopic processes and its applications in the field of analytical chemistry. Subject Content 1. An introduction to the objectives of analysis in analytical chemistry.
2. Sampling techniques, sample handling and preparation.
3. Understanding spreadsheet functions and screen interfaces of data analysis programs
4. Volumetric analysis and solution preparation including stoichiometric calculations.
5. Gravimetric methods of analysis and stoichiometric calculations
6. Separations, including HPLC, GC and CE.
7. Spectroscopy, including IR, UV, AAS and AES.
8. Challenges in the analysis of real samples Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 3 hours 30 Y Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 50 minutes  20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Andrew Shalliker Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Andrew Shalliker Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Chemical Sciences (CHEM) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Secondary Chemistry Education, Major (0349)