Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1027 Working with Communities (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500043 Coordinator Jack Isherwood Opens in new window Description A diverse range of professionals use social science research, theories and principles in their work with communities. In this subject students will explore common scholarly ideas and practices that inform work with communities and how these are applied in a range of professional settings. This subject introduces students to the methods and principles of community participation, capacity-building, community needs assessment, and resilience. Students will be guided to identify and analyse global, local, government and organisational aspects and interests in the development of their own and wider communities. Students will plan a professional approach to working with an example community by building and reporting on a chosen case study. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1011 - Organisations Communities and Communication BUSM 1033 - Working with Communities CULT 1020 - Working With Communities CULT 1021 - Working with Communities (WSTC) CULT 1027 - Working with Communities (UG Cert) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 7170 - Undergraduate Certificate in Mental Health and Counselling. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe key concepts and perspectives in community scholarship.
Critically reflect on how key concepts and perspectives are connected to their individual experience of community, and to a range of professions that work with communities.
Collect and analyse relevant information about an example community from scholarly and professional perspectives.
Propose an approach to working with an example community from a professional perspective.
Explain the importance of community empowerment, capacity-building, identity, diversity and social justice, to society and the individua.
Utilise online technologies to organise, share and communicate Indigenous-related topics and issues. Subject Content Threshold concepts and the main debates in community scholarship.
?eCommunities?f as dynamic, social and cultural groups that are both political and contested entities and exist as multi-scalar (local, regional, international, and across time) collectives of interest, as virtual as well as place based.
Why community matters: power, social action, a sense of the past and future directions, contestation and decision-making.
Assessing social needs and enacting change: How different organisa Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio  600 words  20 N Individual   Case study
Part A – Needs Assessment
Part B – Reflection on Goals and challenges 1000 words  
Part A – 400   
Part B - 600    
 40 N Individual   Professional artefact  1,000 words  40 N Individual Structures that include subject Other Society and Culture (CULT) Undergraduate Certificate in Counselling and Mental Health (7170)