Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2042 Science Research Methods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301445 Coordinator Clarissa House Opens in new window Description This subject aims to introduce you to the theories and practices underpinning  scientific method. Through the course of the subject, you will develop analytical skills to quantify and interpret agricultural, zoological, and environmental data. You will use real-world issues, formulate an aim and research hypothesis and explore research methods and designs to conduct an experiment to test the hypothesis. You will also will be introduced to the types of biological variables, sources of measurement error, and the relationship between sample size and the conclusions that can be drawn from data; This subject enables you to develop skills in data analysis, interpretation and how to report on the findings of the research. The subject is structured so that lectures will provide theoretical expertise and workshops will reinforce your learning with practical experience preparing you for a career in science. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5920 - Research Communities and their Environments NATS 2028 - Research Methods LGYA 6151 - Animal Research NATS 2025 - Natural Science Research Methods Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify key concepts, principles, and tools for conducting scientific research.
Formulate and test a research hypothesis or address a research question in the context of applied science, including agri-food, environmental and zoological enquiries.
Collate meaningful data and conduct appropriate analysis by using accepted scientific conventions. 
Report the research analyses by articulating the link between a research hypothesis and experimental design.
Clearly communicate research findings to various professional and non-professional stake holders. Subject Content - Data types (i.e. continuous, categorical, ordinal etc.) - Data collection tools (i.e. sample size, units of replication etc.) - What statistical test is appropriate for the data? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 x 30 minutes  30 N Individual N  Proposal 600 words 15 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 500 words each 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Clarissa House Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)