Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1018 Infant and Early Development Legacy Code 102666 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Birth – 5 Years). Learning Outcomes Analyse contemporary theories of child development and apply these understandings to practice.
Explain children’s development from conception to five years of age across physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, sensory, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains.
Discuss the relative impact on children’s development of nature (biological and genetic factors) and nurture (environmental factors).
Analyse children’s development and learning within socio-cultural contexts and determine the implications for planning for children’s learning.
Analyse the importance of building positive, professional relationships with young children and families and determine the implications for promoting responsive quality care and education. 
Use a variety of observational techniques to document, analyse and interpret children’s development using relevant theory and research.
Critique developmentally and culturally appropriate practices and principles and their implications for care and education that is responsive to the needs of diverse children and their families. Subject Content Module 1: The ecology of childhood and child development 
The child in the context of family, society, and community
Diversity in family structures and values and socialisation practices.  
Module 2: Children’s growth and development: theoretical perspectives
Theories of child development 
Children’s development from pre-natal to the early school years across physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, sensory, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains.  
Module 3: Brain development research and its implications for practice
Research on early brain development 
The impact of biological and genetic factors
Creating environments which respond to critical and sensitive periods of development
Module 4: Relationships as foundational for children’s developments 
Positive interactions and communication with children and families
Continuity of care and education
The pedagogy of relationships
Module 5: Application of knowledge of child development into practice
Observe, assess, and guide children’s development and learning utilising theories of child development    
Critique and apply the principles of developmentally and culturally appropriate practices in designing quality care and learning in early childhood Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have satisfactorily completed online Child Protection Awareness Training, have a current Working with Children Check, and completed the online course ASCIA Anaphylaxis: Australasian childcare. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Poster A3 Poster 20 N Individual   Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual   Case Study 1,500 words (excludes references list and all attachments) 40 N Individual