Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7110 Project Controls and Integration Credit Points 10 Description This subject educates and inspires future leaders about project control principles and integration of project management processes and knowledge areas, thereby enabling successful project delivery. While special attention is drawn on addressing project scope, schedule, cost, risk and integration management, other aspects of project management are also discussed. Students will delve into the advantages and challenges of various approaches, such as APM’s and PMI’s, from practitioners’ perspective. Students will also gain practical insights and develop decision-making skills through real-world cases and scenarios across various industries and domains. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MGMT 7003 AND
BUSM 7064 AND
BLDG 7013 AND
BUSM 7082 AND
BUSM 7090 AND
BUSM7097 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 3752 Master of Project Management or 3786 Graduate Diploma in Project Management Learning Outcomes Evaluate the integration of Project Controls throughout various phases of a project's life cycle and how it enhances the likelihood of project success.
Apply industry standards, such as PMI’s and APM’s, on complex project environments to plan, organise, execute, monitor and close out project phases.
Evaluate and apply a range of frameworks, methods, and best practices in project management with a focus on project impact on environment and people.
Utilise Project Controls functions to integrate the management of project schedule, cost and risks.
Apply Project Controls tools and methods to support a project's delivery, commercial and financial departments. 
Evaluate the strategic and business perspectives of Project Controls. Subject Content Introduction to Project Controls and Integration 
Project Initiation and Management Plans 
Integrated Schedule, Cost and Risk Controls
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Controlling 
Project Change Management 
Commercial and Financial Perspectives of Project Controls 
Strategic Perspectives of Project Controls and Integration
Controls and Integration of Project Documents and Knowledge Management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 3000 words 30 N Group/Individual N  Presentation 25 minutes per group of 5 members 20 N Group/Individual N  Professional Task 1000-1200 words 30 N Individual N  Reflection 800-1000 words 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Diploma in Project Management (3786) Master of Project Management (3752)