Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3021 Sport Development Internship A Credit Points 10 Coordinator Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window Description Sport Development Internship A provides students with the opportunity to prepare for an experience of sport development in the workplace through a supervised placement in the sport and active recreation industry. Preparing for Internships will allow students to relate their acquired academic knowledge and to apply their skills to real-world applications in an industry setting. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport And Recreation Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects SPRT 3014
BUSM 3008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4741 Bachelor of Sport Development. Students must complete 120 Credit Points of core Subjects and electives in 4741. Assumed Knowledge A developed level of knowledge in Sport Development Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: 1. Integrate academic theory with real world applications in a professional setting.
2. Evaluate the structures and processes employed in the planning, implementation and evaluation of sports development projects at the organisation.
3. Identify and prioritize organisational areas for development and formulate specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and timely goals that support the development of sport at the organisation. Subject Content Work Placement:  100 – 160 hours of supervised industry experience
During their placements students will integrate the acquired academic theory in sport development with real world applications at their hosting organizations. Work integrated learning There is a mandatory work component required for completion of this program.  Please contact the Program Advisor listed above for information. International students should also refer to the link below for more information and a link to the Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS). Work Integrated Learning (WIL) for international students Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Requirements will vary between hosting organisations and may include a Working with Children Check (WWCC), Child Protection Course (CP), Criminal Record Check or First Aid Certificate. Specific requirements will be identified and confirmed with students prior to the commencement of placements.  In any case, mandatory special requirements that must be completed before enrolling in this unit include:
1.WWCC
2.CP
Placements will not proceed if the student does not have the correct requirements at the time the placement is due to begin. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Simulation 5 minutes 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hazel Maxwell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)