Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1040 Natural Science (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description This subject delves into the rich tapestry of biodiversity, uncovering the myriad of living organisms that inhabit our planet and their intricate roles within ecosystems. In this subject, you will explore and classify biodiversity and the mechanisms through which organisms grow, reproduce, and utilise resources. You will learn about the process of evolution and how evolution has given rise to the diversity of organisms in the biosphere. You will also observe the natural interactions between living organisms and Earth’s ecosystems, recognising that these very interactions have been pivotal in driving evolutionary changes. As you progress, you will gain insights into the importance of sustainable engagement with biodiversity, upon which the future of human survival depends. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and describe the characteristics of major biological groups and demonstrate their application in classifying unknown organisms.
Explain how evolution gives rise to biodiversity through the process of selection.
Explain the functional adaptions of organisms to different environments.
Apply your understanding of biodiversity to identify and classify organisms in the natural environment.
Demonstrate an understanding of how sustainable practices maintain biodiversity in different ecosystems.
Effectively communicate scientific findings and concepts, tailored to both professional and non-professional audiences, employing appropriate terminology. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview 30 minutes 30 N Group N  Professional Task 6 x 2 hour practicals including report 40 N Individual N  Presentation 5-7 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)