Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3098 Indonesian 304 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102776 Coordinator Anna Nettheim Opens in new window Description This is an advanced (Level 3) subject in the Indonesian Specialisation, which can be undertaken following on from Indonesian 202, 301, or 302 as well as by students with sufficient language skills due to Indonesian or Malay background. The subject further develops students' Indonesian academic language skills by focusing on language resources in various genres appropriate for academic purposes. Students will be exposed to a range of academic texts and related online materials to support the development of academic Indonesian skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3042 - Indonesian 304 Contemporary Indonesia Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of Indonesian 202 OR Indonesian 301 OR Indonesian 302 OR Equivalent (for example HSC Indonesian with high grades), Native Background and Previous Study in Indonesian or Malay. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate a detailed understanding of the social and cultural diversity of modern Indonesian society;
Demonstrate a good knowledge of Indonesian and its sociolinguistic role in modern Indonesia;
Communicate at an advanced level using the Indonesian language;
Apply general knowledge about Indonesian culture and society to learn and interpret information in the context of effective communication.
Demonstrate an understanding of advanced grammatical and stylistic structures in different genres of Indonesian academic writing. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summaries/Short answer: Five summaries of unit Readings and four Practice writing and translation tasks  1,000 words equivalent 20 N Individual   Essay: Two short writing tasks 500 words each (20% each) 40 N Individual   Translation Task 350 words  20 N Individual   Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)