Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3053 Japanese 303: Contemporary Culture and Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100093 Coordinator Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window Description This subject aims to provide students with a valuable insight into modern Japanese culture and society via learning the language at an advanced level. In this subject, students will further enhance their four skills in the language with a focus on listening and speaking. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Japanese 203 and 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes communicate in Japanese at an advanced level using expressions which are not only grammatically correct but also culturally appropriate and suitable to the context;
discuss in Japanese some major issues of Japanese culture and society or differences between Japanese and other cultures;
demonstrate their understanding of Japanese culture and society;
conduct a small research project on selected topics. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 hours in total during the semester 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes per student 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 4000 Japanese characters 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)