Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7034 Digital Marketing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201026 Coordinator Michael Lwin Opens in new window Description In the last decade or so, marketing has moved from traditional practice to the digital realm where technology now drives many decisions in marketing strategy.  It is now even more important that all types of organisations are able to deliver the right message, to the right people, at the right time.  Digital marketing is often closely linked to the internet as the primary channel of contact and where success is measured via mobile and social media marketing.  This subject will teach students the principles of digital marketing so they understand the key frameworks of digital marketing technology and are able to apply marketing strategies to target tech savvy consumers. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7089 - Strategic Marketing for Managers Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge An understanding of marketing theory and relevant principles is assumed. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the digital marketing theoretical framework
Evaluate digital consumer behaviour within the context of marketing strategy
Apply discipline knowledge to create a digital marketing campaign
Demonstrate the ability to track and evaluate a campaign
Analyse digital transparency, data governance and policy Subject Content 1. An overview of the digital marketing landscape
2. Consumer behaviour in a technology driven environment
3. Investigate digital platforms and marketing channels
4. Design a digital marketing strategy
5. Evaluate digital analytics and metrics to make business decisions
6. Digital transparency, data governance and policy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 3,000 words equivalency 50 N Individual Y  Report 2,000 words equivalency 30 N Group Y  Applied Project 1,000 words equivalency 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michael Lwin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Michael Lwin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michael Lwin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Quarter 4 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Michael Lwin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Marketing (exit only) (2818) Graduate Certificate in User Experience (3788) Marketing, Major (0137) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Master of Marketing (2817) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)