Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7015 Water Resources Systems Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301012 Coordinator Surendra Shrestha Opens in new window Description Water resources projects are large infrastructure projects requiring huge capital expenditure.  In addition, multiple options are usually available to meet the project goals but at different costs and under varying constraints.  This subject presents the application of optimisation techniques to select the best project from a list of competing projects.  Applications of these techniques to optimally allocate available water resources are discussed.  These are presented within the context of maximising the return of investment. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Water and Sanitary Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Engineering program undertaking a Civil Engineering major. Assumed Knowledge Discounting techniques, time value of money, equivalence analysis, present worth analysis, annual worth analysis, benefit-cost analysis, net benefit analysis, rate of return.   Fluid properties, hydrostatics, open channel flow analysis, pipe network analysis, analysis and design of hydraulic structures, exposure to surface water hydrology and its components, water quality analysis. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: formulate and solve optimisation problems with specific application to water resources projects
use linear and non-linear programming techniques in the decision making process (water resources projects)
propose the best water resource project alternative from among various available options
develop and implement decision support systems in selection of available water resources
select and apply the most appropriate model from among commonly available water allocation models
communicate effectively with peers and wider professional communities Subject Content 1. Linear Programming principles
2. Non-linear Programming techniques
3. Engineering Economic theory
4. Water Allocation Models
5. Commonly used optimisation packages Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Project Report x 1 2500 words (plus appendices) (est.) 85 N Individual   Oral Presentation 30-min oral presentation 15 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)