Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2037 Pathological Basis of Disease Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301356 Coordinator Sindy Kayillo Opens in new window Description From 2020 this subject replaces 300889 -  Pathological Basis of Disease. Pathology is the study of disease. Students will gain an understanding of human pathogenesis, general and systems pathological processes, and the scientific basis of diagnostic and treatment options. The subject also introduces normal human tissue and organ histology, and examines histopathological changes evident in disease states. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 1025 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 2028 - Pathological Basis of Disease BIOS 2027 - Pathological Basis of Disease Incompatible Subjects BIOS 2029 - Pathophysiology 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3577 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3657 Bachelor of Medical Science/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology, 3673 Bachelor of Medical Science, 3682 Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced), or 3674 Bachelor of Medical Science (Nanotechnology) or 6002 Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science Note: Enrolment of students in other programs may be approved by the subject Coordinator for the Summer session, subject to vacancies and meeting equivalent prerequisite knowledge. Please lodge a Rule Waiver request for enrolment. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of cell structure and function of cellular components (consistent with the subject Cell Biology); Knowledge of biochemical pathways and energy production (consistent with the subject Functional Proteins and Genes). Learning Outcomes Use appropriate scientific terminology in the context of histology and pathology
Identify and discuss features of normal and diseased tissue
Explain disease aetiology, pathogenesis, progression, associated diagnostics and therapeutic interventions
Explain anatomical and physiological consequences of disease
Apply problem solving skills to interpret clinical and diagnostic findings
Explain scientific basis of diagnostics and therapeutic interventions Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intrasemester test 1 50 minutes 20 N Individual   Intrasemester test 2 50 minutes 20 N Individual   Pre-class exercises x 4 approx 2 hours work each 20 N Individual   Final examination 2 hours 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)