Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 1003 Accounting Information for Managers (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700005 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description This subject provides exposure to financial and management accounting information from the viewpoint of a non-accounting specialist. The subject aims to provide breadth of awareness and knowledge in relevant fields of accounting essential to decision making for managers. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ACCT 1001 - Accounting Information for Managers Incompatible Subjects ACCT 1005 Accounting in Context ACCT 1006 Accounting in Context (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the purpose and role of accounting information;
Outline employer obligations in business management;
Analyse common business transactions;
Apply GST in context of business transactions and construct a BAS;
Prepare and analyse financial reports at an introductory level;
Construct and evaluate budgets;
Interpret accounting information to make business decisions. Subject Content 1. The role and purpose of accounting information
2. Business structures
3. Employer obligations
4. Accounting concepts and principles
5. Business transaction analysis in the accounting process
6. Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Business Activity Statements (BAS)
7. Financial statement preparation, interpretation and performance analysis
8. Budgeting ? planning and control
9. Cost behaviour Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,500 words   30 N Individual N  Quiz 60 minutes 5 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 80 minutes 15 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT)