Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1073 Understanding Contemporary Australia (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Musab Buyuksoy Opens in new window Description Contemporary Australian society is dynamic and diverse, influenced by an increasingly interconnected world where international trade, foreign policy, digital communication and flows of migrants and cultures across borders appear to undermine the importance of national communities and identities. Despite this, everyday life is still profoundly influenced by the decisions which national governments make and the powers they exercise. This subject explores Australia’s history, peoples, liberal democratic tradition and contemporary challenges and issues we face as members of the national and global community. You will identify and explore established narratives, connect past developments with present issues and examine specific events within the broader context of world history. You will also develop the skills to further understand broader influences on contemporary Australia and your personal lived experiences. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1052
HUMN 1055 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of Australia’s liberal democratic traditions 
Participate in contemporary public debates around contemporary key issues such as international relations, political participation, social movements, media, Australian culture
Demonstrate the ability to communicate effectively using a variety methods 
Demonstrate understanding of the historical and contemporary impacts of colonisation on Indigenous Peoples 
Demonstrate an ability to make connections between various types of sources Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 300 words 15 N Individual N  Proposal 800 words 25 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 3 mins per student 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)