Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 4001 Computational Fluid Dynamics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300999 Coordinator Ming Zhao Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the fundamentals of computational fluid dynamics. The subject covers the conventional methods for solving the ordinary and partial differential equations. The numerical method for solving the inviscid flow and the viscous flow problems will be introduced. The students learn the application of the commercial software in the engineering problems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 1006 AND
MECH 3007 Assumed Knowledge Numerical methods, thermal dynamics and fluid mechanics. Learning Outcomes Solve flow equations using the basic concepts of Computational Fluid Dynamics;
Analyse laminar flow, turbulent flow and heat transfer using numerical method;
Apply computational methods to solve simple flow and heat transfer problems;
Use commercial CFD software to analyse practical flows. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 2 hour Tutorial class each week 10 N Individual N  Quiz 40 minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 2000 word report 30 N Individual N  Practical 2500 word report 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ming Zhao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ming Zhao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ming Zhao Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Automation, Concentration (0123) Computer Aided Design (Mechanical), Concentration (0124) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Thermal and Fluid Systems, Concentration (0126) ​Thermal and Fluid Systems, Minor (0126)