Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2018 Paramedic Practice 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401073 Coordinator Paul Simpson Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to advanced elements of paramedic practice including advanced life support (ALS) resuscitation, and systematic examination of the cardiorespiratory and neurological systems.  Core psychomotor procedures will be explored including advanced airway management and intravenous access.  The subject has a strong practical component, during which students can apply theoretical learning to simulated cases of moderate complexity.  The unit is underpinned by a strong focus on reasoning and decision making. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2017 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 2015 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate reasoning and decision making relating to safe performance of clinical procedures
Demonstrate structured physical examination of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and neurological systems
Analyse findings of diagnostic assessments and formulate care plans
Formulate referral-based care plans involving integration into community-based healthcare services
Perform advanced life support procedures in simulation contexts
Apply patient safety principles to simulation practice. Subject Content Physical examination of the cardiorespiratory and neurological systems
Advanced life support (ALS)
Diagnostics and clinical decision making
Parenteral drug administration
Advanced airway management
Safe drug administration
Medical documentation
Determination of disposition
Referral and integrated care
Paramedicine integration with community based healthcare Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes; 10 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words 25 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 20 N Individual N  Simulation 60 minutes 45 Y Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Paul Simpson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)