Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7089 Primary English and Literacy 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101579 Coordinator Pegah Marandi Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to explore key concepts associated with the teaching of the English Key Learning Area in the K-6 years, set in the broader context of a contemporary new literacies environment. It will examine the processes involved in the teaching of English with a focus on effective pedagogical practices, responsive teaching and explicit and systematic teaching of phonics and reading traditional print-based literacies and multiliteracies. Students will investigate teaching, learning, assessment and the key processes and components of learning to read using a range of factual and literary texts, involving every day and specialised knowledge for a range of readers/viewers. Students will be introduced to children’s literature and authentic texts for the development of students’ reading skills and abilities. Students will develop understandings of effective pedagogy and practice within the area of K-6 English and investigate the NSW English K-10 (focus on K-6) syllabus. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the key processes and components in how children learn to read (phonological and phonemic awareness, letter/sound correspondence, phonic knowledge, vocabulary, reading fluency, reading comprehension) 
Examine the aims, outcomes, and content of relevant English syllabus and curriculum documents with focus on oral language and communication, understanding texts and responding to literature. 
Identify the learning needs of diverse learners: English as an Additional Language or Dialect, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners, culturally and linguistically diverse learners, and learners with special needs, including low socio-economic, and gifted and talented students. 
Review current children’s' literature, including Australian literature. 
Evaluate strategies and concepts involved in reading to learn through the integration of literacy with other KLAs.
Apply a range of effective pedagogical practices and culturally and linguistically responsive strategies for planning teaching and assessing the explicit and systematic teaching of phonics, the reception and interpretation of literary, factual and multimodal texts.
Plan further instruction based on evaluations, including formative and summative assessment of emergent readers learning needs through collection and analysis of student data and evidence-based practices. Subject Content Introduction to Theories that underpin Speaking & Listening, Reading and Viewing, Thinking Imaginatively and Creatively, Expressing Themselves  
Introduction NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: English K-10 syllabus. (Early Stage 1 to Stage 4)    
Learning to read and reading to learn (practices and processes 1) Beginning Reading  
	
Introduction to case study methodology  
Shared, Guided and Independent Reading Pedagogies 


Reading (Learning to read and reading to learn practices and processes II) 
	
Phonemic Awareness and picture books  
Assessing Reading
Strategies and Activities  
Explicit and systematic teaching of phonics


Assessing reading:  
	
State and National testing e.g. NAPLAN 
Authentic reading assessment (identifying all students strengths and needs) 
Reading and Viewing strategies and activities (Focus on learning needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students, including specific strategies for English as an Additional Language or Dialect) 
Reading groups  


Multimodal development, Responding and Composing, Speaking and listening, Reading and Viewing 
	
Second language acquisition: theory and practice models  
Strategies and Activities  


Increasingly complex meaning making: Independent Reading 
	
Multiliteracies and new literacies 
Visual, multimodal and critical literacies 
Strategies and Activities 


Working with independent readers 
	
A focus on reading to learn 
Factual texts, literature circles and poetry 
Strategies and Activities  


Reading across the KLAs 
	
Reading for different purposes, critical literacy and independent research 
Strategies and Activities  


Poetry and Readers Theatre 
	
Reader identities and academic self-concepts 
Strategies and Activities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Pegah Marandi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Pegah Marandi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Pegah Marandi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Teacher Education (TEAC)