Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7018 Advanced Cloud Computing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301363 Coordinator Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window Description This subject offers the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Academy "Academy Cloud Architecting" (ACA) curriculum and provides deeper understanding of advanced cloud computing services and how to architect cloud solutions. Students will learn advanced cloud computing concepts including notification and messaging, serverless computing, API gateways, NoSQL databases, and content delivery networks. The subject also explores strategies to enable high scalability, reliability, cost-efficiency, performance, and operational excellence in a cloud-based system. All these aspects are explored in practice with AWS services. Upon completion of this subject, students will be prepared for the AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate exam. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 7004 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Assess different design patterns for web-scale storage and recommend the most appropriate pattern for a specific problem.
Analyse common design patterns and architectures for loosely coupled cloud computing systems and recommend the most appropriate pattern for a specific problem.
Evaluate strategies to enable high scalability, reliability, cost-efficiency, performance, and operational excellence in a cloud-based system.
Examine concepts of security and infrastructure automation in a cloud-based system.
Design and deploy scalable, reliable, and efficient systems that utilise advanced cloud services. Subject Content 1.Design patterns for loosely coupled cloud computing systems: microservices and serverless architectures
2.Design patterns for web-scale storage: content delivery networks, object storage, and relational and no-relational databases
3.Advanced cloud services: API gateways, stream processing, and serverless computing
4.Queueing and notification systems
5.Advanced cloud security
6.Reliability in clouds
7.Cost and performance efficiency in cloud computing
8.Infrastructure automation
9.Common cloud design patterns and cloud architectures Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 minutes for 13 quizzes S/U N Individual N  Practical 120 minutes (each) 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 10 pages 25 N Group N  Report 2500 words 30 N Individual N  Viva Voce 10 minutes 15 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Cloud and Distributed Computing, Testamur Major (T121) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)