Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1036 Introduction to the Creative Industries Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102836 Coordinator Rachel Morley Opens in new window Description Careers in the Creative Industries are on the rise. They're innovation-led, mobile, global and adaptable. In the short-term success can be a matter of luck but a long-term career requires tactics, talent, and savvy business acumen. In this hands-on subject we'll introduce you to some of the key opportunities in the Creative Industries in fields as diverse as Communication, Media, Music, Design, Writing and associated aspects of Intellectual Property Law and Entrepreneurship. We'll look at the Creative Industries from historical and contemporary perspectives, and hear from industry contributors working in the field right now. You'll be introduced to 'future of work' skillsets, including entrepreneurship, leadership, collaboration and communication capabilities, and you'll learn how to situate your own creative knowledge within them. Available to students from all disciplines, this subject will suit you if you're passionate about taking your creative career to the next level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define the Creative Industries using national and international examples.
Identify and recognise their field of study within the Creative Industries.
Apply research skills to investigate and communicate the career trajectory of a Creative Industries professional.
Communicate at an introductory level the relationship between creativity, commerce and law; and the social, economic, technological and workplace practices that typify the Creative Industries.
Describe at an introductory level key strategies and methodologies that inform creative research, development, production and circulation in the context of the Creative Industries. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 3 x 700 words or equivalent (Total: 2,100 words or equivalent) 45 N Individual N  Professional Task All day participation + 4 minute presentation 20 N Group N  Presentation 4 minutes 10 N Group N  Report 1,200 words or equivalent 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rachel Morley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009)