Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7021 Practice of Obstetric and Gynecological (O&G) Sonography 3 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Catherine Robinson Opens in new window Description In this subject, students will enhance their skills in image acquisition, optimisation, and measurement. They will learn to identify crucial features of fetal and maternal anatomy and physiology required to perform a comprehensive O&G sonographic assessment. Additionally, students will explore effective communication techniques for delivering adverse findings, managing workplace relationships, and meeting patient expectations. They will collaborate with peers and incorporate feedback to deliver a multimedia presentation to a professional audience with confidence. The subject also includes a work-integrated learning component to promote the development of skills, knowledge, and attributes. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7020 - Practice of O G Sonography 2 Co-requisite(s) RADI 6002 - Research Foundations for Sonography Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the program 4802 - Graduate Diploma in Obstetric and Gynecological Sonography. Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy, physiology and mathematics. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1. Acquire obstetric sonographic images demonstrating key features of maternal anatomy and fetal organ systems
2. Evaluate pathologies of the female pelvis based on sonographic images and findings
3. Investigate communication styles that engender trust and mutual respect to ensure optimal patient care and professional relationships in the clinical setting
4. Implement reflective practice and peer collaboration to identify areas for improvement in professional and clinical performance Subject Content Module 1: Professional and Ethical Practice 3
1. Communicating adverse findings
2. Managing workplace relationships and patient expectations 
3. Professional learning opportunities
Module 2: Specialty Knowledge and Imaging Skills 3A (Obstetrics)
1. Fetal brain
2. Fetal spine and limbs
3. Fetal face and neck
4. Cardiovascular system
5. Fetal heart and thorax
6. Electrophysiology
7. Fetal abdomen and genitourinary tract
8. Multifetal pregnancies
9. Anomalies of the cervix and placenta
Module 3: Specialty Knowledge and Imaging Skills 3B (Gynecology)
1. Pathologies of the uterus and endometrium
2. Pathologies of the ovaries and adnexa Work integrated learning Work Integrated Learning Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Legislative requirements (such as a criminal record check) are not deemed necessary for students in the O&G ultrasonography course. For students who complete their clinical training in a NSW public hospital, the necessary legislative requirements will be part of their employment conditions. Clinical training for many of the students will be in a private setting, where the necessary requirements (which are likely to differ from public institutions) will be addressed as needed. Training for some students will occur in states other than NSW (where legislative requirements can be competed if, and when required). Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Students will need a computer and internet access to use the e-learning platform. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1000 words 25 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 25 N Group N  Practical Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Portfolio 600 studies with quality and reflective learning activities S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Obstetric and Gynecological Sonography (4802) Radiography (RADI)