Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2032 Music-making applications for education and therapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102910 Coordinator Kate Penson Opens in new window Description This subject assists you in developing your musical competency with a view to applications in education and therapy, since particular types of music skills and applied competencies are required for music teachers and music therapists as they work with students and clients. If you want to develop your musical skills to engage more actively in musical interaction with people, then this is the subject for you! This very practically oriented subject explores applied music literacy and aspects of using music as a tool within the social/educational context, engaging you in vocal, guitar, piano/keyboard and aural activities, as taught by experienced music therapy and education staff. This subject helps you expand your musical potential and career options, supporting you in developing skills to set you up for success in entering your chosen field of study, completing your studies and ultimately being career-ready for your future in the musical context. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Assumed Knowledge Beginning competency on piano, guitar or voice and basic music literacy skills. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain the key music literacy skills (within the areas of reading, writing and playing) as relevant to music education and music therapy contexts.
Apply learned music literacy skills utilising the guitar, piano/keyboard and voice as associated with music education and music therapy delivery.
Create a personalised music literacy skills development plan with a view to potential career path towards the music education or music therapy fields.
Appraise current evidence-based applications to one area of music education or music therapy practice. Subject Content Introduction to music-making in education and therapy, with real-world examples of relevant music practices applied to these contexts and the importance of competent music skills.
Reviewing own current skills development, reflective critiquing own musical development. Establishing a practice regime and feedback mechanisms.
Foundations of music-making including aural skills, music reading and music literacy.
Music-making with voice.
Music-making with piano/keyboard.
Music-making with guitar.
Review and closure ? summary and review of the unit, personal insights into developing music-making as applied to education and therapy contexts. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2,000 words (total) 30 N Individual N  Quiz 10 quizzes 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 8 songs 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Kate Penson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Performing Arts (PERF)