Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 5001 Workflow Management for Business Solutions Credit Points 10 Coordinator Merv Small Opens in new window Description Through project-based learning, students will learn how to configure digital workflows applications and build custom applications with a strong emphasis on human centered design and end-to-end process re/engineering. Mentoring and coaching is provided by the industrial-academic team to allow students to develop real world, work ready skills to fulfil various organisational roles implementing the digital workflows platform. Teaching and learning activities focus on ServiceNow which is a cloud-based platform that delivers cross-enterprise digital workflows, connecting people, functions and systems. At the conclusion of this subject, you will have completed certifications for both the ServiceNow Fundamentals and Application Development Fundamentals, both highly sought after in the current job market. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Students must be either enrolled in a postgraduate program or if accessing from undergraduate program, they must complete at least 160 credit points. Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have a general understanding of IT platforms and some basic knowledge of coding Learning Outcomes Analyse conceptually how roles, groups and users work together to provide role-based access;
Create forms and views, with a focus on a positive user experience;
Analyse business processes, focussing on human-centred design;
Create knowledge articles to assist users to find the information they need;
Develop workflows to automate applications;
Collaborate with peers in an ethical and respectful manner to create an application that addresses requirements;
Present the features and benefits of an application in a clear and convincing manner. Subject Content ServiceNow Fundamentals Application Development Fundamentals Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Simulation 17 hours 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 18 hours 30 N Group Y  Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Merv Small Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Enterprise Systems and Architectures, Testamur Major (T151) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)