Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7007 Chinese Cultural Policy and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102541 Coordinator Qiang Guo Opens in new window Description China's relationship with Australia and the rest of the world is critical to Australia's future success.  This subject offers a broad introduction to Chinese society, history and politics and will cover in more detail cultural developments, including the creative arts such as music, literature, visual arts and film, together with popular arts and the digital transformation of media and the arts.  An outline of Chinese aesthetic theories, cultural policies and the work of critics will be presented.  The roles of art institutions such as museums, galleries, performance companies and publishers will be considered, together with agencies involved in international cultural exchange such as translators, censors and copyright agencies.  The study of the interplay of Chinese language, thought and culture will be an integral part of this subject. A case study of a particular cultural medium may be presented by an invited guest speaker.  This subject may be further developed through the China Culture Study subject which is an alternate subject within the Master of Chinese Cultural Relations course. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Anthropology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss developments in Chinese history and social changes
Critically analyse theoretical frameworks related to Chinese culture
Critically evaluate contemporary Chinese cultural manifestations
Analyse the development of a particular Chinese art form and its institutional management
Discuss issues applying to the technological development and internationalisation of Chinese culture Subject Content 1. Introduction to Chinese history, society and political developments
2. An overview of aspects of Chinese language, thought and culture
3. Introduction to Chinese aesthetics and cultural policies
4. Outline of Chinese cultural forms including art, music, theatre, film, literature and popular culture
5. An examination of a selected art form through literature search
7. Digitalisation and globalisation of Chinese culture
6. Arts management and the functions of art institutions in China Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 800 - 1000 words, 5-10 minutes
 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1,000 words (equivalent) 30 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)