Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2032 Issues in World Development: Rich World, Poor World Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101331 Coordinator Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the field of international development, where the divide between the rich world and poor world takes a centre stage. While development has created prosperity around the world, it is not without discontents. Social and economic inequality at the global level is a real problem and has been increasing. The 'developed' and 'developing' world paradigm will be critically examined. Students will be equipped with theories and practicum examining development, underdevelopment and their related issues within a contemporary political, economic and social framework. Students will also have exposure to current global development debates such as poverty, global inequality, sustainable development, democracy and security. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Geography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7635 - Issues in Third World Development HUMN - 2033 Issues in World Development Rich World Poor World (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and analyse the divide between rich and poor world
Critically examine and articulate key theories, perspectives and issues in world development
Critically examine and articulate frameworks or models of international development and then apply those frameworks or models to real and practical issues in world development Subject Content Introduction: Rich world and poor world in the era of globalisation
Theories of development and humanitarian intervention
How to get rich: capitalism and industrialisation
Poverty: what, how and why
Globalization, trade and Multi-National Corporations (MNCs)
Population growth and migration
Health, education and human development
Environment and development
Social and economic inequality
State vs. Market
Conflict and development
Democracy, Institution and development Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 750 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 750 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zulfan Tadjoeddin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Economy and Society, Minor (0319) Global Politics and International Relations, Major (0340) Heritage and Tourism, Minor (0012) Human Rights, Protection and Development, Major (0095) Humanitarian and Development Studies, Major (0332) Peace and Development Studies, Major (0027) Peace and Development Studies, Minor (0027) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Sustainable Development, Major (0163) Water for Life, Minor (0311)