Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3061 Mystical Islam: The Emergence of Sufism in World History Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102495 Coordinator Mory So Opens in new window Description Global Islamism has projected a particularly severe, even militant face of Islam across much of the world. Much less well known is the fact that for much of its history Islam has had a quite different face: it has been mystical and contemplative more than proselytising. The Sufist tradition was formed within the first three centuries of Islamic history; its influence spread far and wide across the Muslim World where "Sufis" played a pivotal role in engaging non-Muslim peoples both within and on the fringes of their world. The subject explores religious pluralism and an alternative narrative in Islam. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of Sufi historical past leading up to the present;
Analyse key figures and events that define the Sufi mystical tradition;
Comprehend the history of scholarship and approaches to the study of Sufism;
Apply multidisciplinary methodological approaches to the study of Sufism and mystic traditions;
Identify significant influences in the process of development and impact of Sufi ideas to the present age; and
Exhibit learned research techniques and awareness of relevant source materials. Subject Content Module 1 Overview and Approach
Module 2 Before Sufism
Module 3 The Sufi The Dervish
Module 4 Silence and Sobriety
Module 5 Intoxicated Speech
Module 6 Consolidation and Systematisation
Module 7 Principal Teachings
Module 8 Mysticism and the Religion of Love
Module 9 Mystical Poetry
Module 10 Theophany
Module 11 The Female Mystic
Module 12 The Divine Feminine
Module 13 Resistance and Change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 45 N Individual Y  Essay 2,500 words 55 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mory So Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Mory So Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Islamic Studies, Major (0020) Islamic Studies, Minor (0020) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Studies of Religion, Minor (0200)