Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7008 Fire Engineering Design and Assessment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300718 Coordinator Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window Description This subject helps to develop a high level of knowledge of fire safety systems relevant to life protection and the design and assessment of such systems. The subject covers the process of fire safety engineering design and assessment including the fire engineering brief, conceptual design, regulatory objectives, fire safety engineering subsystems, verification methods, timeline analysis, design fires, evaluation of performance of passive and active fire protection systems, risk analysis and fire engineering project reporting. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Fire Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5425 - Fire Safety Systems (Life Safety) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Fire safety engineering principles, building regulations, fire dynamics, building fire services, fire modelling and human behaviour in fires. Learning Outcomes explain the fundamentals of building fire modelling
undertake a range of calculation methods and utilise computational tools to tackle different aspects of fire safety engineering problems;
apply computational methods and simple fire modelling tools to predict fire behaviour and smoke movement in buildings and solve fire safety engineering problems.
conduct literature reviews to appreciate the range of model application in fire safety engineering and to obtain data for model input and evaluation. Subject Content Correlations and dimensional analysis
Fire plume calculations
Fire severity and fire resistance
Building structure and steel, concrete, timber and glazing elements behaviour
Radiation models
Detector and sprinkler activation models
Zone model and its application
Fundamentals of field models
Literature review Special Requirements Essential equipment Calculator, PC or laptop. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 15 N Individual Y  Report 1500 words. 20 N Group Y  Report 2000 words 25 N Group Y  Report 3000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Fire Safety Engineering (3791) Master of Fire Safety Engineering (3705) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)