Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3024 Occupational Therapy Practice 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400910 Coordinator Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window Description This subject will enable students to consolidate academic knowledge and practice skills. On campus practicums will focus on occupational therapy skill development to equip students with the skills to provide occupational therapy interventions during off-site professional practice placements.  There will be opportunities to actively participate in assessment, analysis, goal setting, intervention and evaluation under the supervision of an occupational therapist. Students will experience full time work with occupational therapists in practice settings. Students will complete practice hours in accordance with World Federation of Occupational Therapy accreditation guidelines. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2004 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3020 AND
REHA 3021 AND
REHA 3002 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7071 - Occupational Therapy Clinical Practice 3A Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours)as this is a specialty subject involving a placement and thus students only from occupational therapy programs are permitted. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Perform professional communication skills in the practice setting
Practise self-directed learning strategies through the use of a learning contract
Reflect on their practice experience using a structured format
Perform professional behaviours and self management in a practice setting with the guidance of an occupational therapy fieldwork supervisor
Prepare documents in a professional format related to practice under the guidance of an occupational therapy fieldwork supervisor
Conduct and interpret assessments relevant to the practice area under the guidance of an occupational therapy fieldwork supervisor
Conduct occupational therapy intervention specific to the practice area in conjunction with an occupational therapy fieldwork superviso
Utilise occupational therapy skills and techniques in practice settings Subject Content 1. Professional practice placements
2. Professional behaviours and self management skills
3. Communication Skills
4. Documentation
5. Assessment / Information Gathering
6. Intervention
7. Evaluation
8. Group Skills
9. Specialist and generalist practice skills (eg splinting, groupwork) Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Viva Voce 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 3000 words 30 N Group Y  Professional Placement Performance National OT Practice Placement Evaluation tool used to assess performance completed by placement supervisor and satisfactory completion of a minimum of 225 hours 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bronwyn Gill Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)