Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2013 Comedy and Tragedy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100900 Coordinator Helen Basides Opens in new window Description This subject will examine the theory, writing and performance of Western Tragedy and comedy.  The generic terms "tragedy" and "comedy" will provide signposts for both historical and theoretically modern approaches to a range of plays.  Texts selected from the period since 1950 may represent comedy and/or tragedy in popular culture, and may have been written for media other than the stage, such as television and film. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 4589 - Comedy and Tragedy Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the plays under analysis in an intellectual context established in lectures, seminars and through wider secondary reading.
Identify generic conventions of tragedy and of comedy that are employed or subverted in the texts set for study.
Explain the relationship of the plays (and other texts set for study) to contemporary and modern genre theory.
Conceptualise and generalise historically concerning tragedy and comedy in the periods examined.
Produce an individual, carefully considered written and oral discussions on issues relating to the generic/historical study of the set texts. Subject Content Debates about the nature, origins, and cultural locus of the genres of comedy and tragedy (Aristotle, Hobbes, Freud, Steiner, Frye, Barber, Bakhtin, Eagleton)
Debates about the "continuity" and/or demise of traditions of comedy and tragedy
Comedy and tragedy in the classical period (5th Century BCE-1st Century AD)
Shakespearean comedy and tragedy in Elizabethan England (Bradley, Frye, Barber, Reiss, Greenblatt, Bloom)
Debates about the "death" of tragedy (Steiner) and the rise of "liberal" tragedy (Williams) in the 19th century
Modern tragedy (Eagleton)
Contemporary television comedy.
Case studies: selected comedies and tragedies from the classical, Shakespearean and "modern" periods. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    1. Short Analysis Task 1 1,800 words total (tasks 1 and 2 ) 25 N Individual   2. Short Analysis Task 2 1,800 words total (tasks 1 and 2 ) 25 N Individual   3. Online quizzes 4 quizzes 10 N Individual   4. Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Summer The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory       N Individual      N Individual      N Individual      N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)