Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2024 Microbiology 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300896 Coordinator Oliver Morton Opens in new window Description The subject focuses on the origins of genetic variation and the process of gene regulation in prokaryotes and explores the metabolic diversity of microorganisms from a variety of habitats and their application in industry and biotechnology. Using published scientific literature, students will learn how scientists research functional microbial physiology in the postgenomic era. The principles and applications of recombinant DNA techniques are discussed. Laboratory classes introduce students to techniques used to study microbial physiology and biotechnology based on microbial metabolism, such as examining the activity of antimicrobials and biotechnology such as microbial fuel cells. School Science Discipline Microbiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2022 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 2025 - Microbiology 2 Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of the major groups of microorganisms and their structure and functions including DNA and key metabolic pathways. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss and compare examples of the metabolic strategies used by prokaryotes to survive in a wide range of environments and their application in industry
Explain the origins of genetic diversity in bacteria and how genes are regulated
Describe how recombinant DNA technology is used as a tool to address a range of biological questions
Describe and apply biochemical and molecular techniques used in the identification of an unknown microorganism and analyse the results
Perform basic techniques employed in the study of microbial physiology and genetics both individually and as a team
Analyse and interpret scientific literature and effectively communicate ideas Subject Content 1. Microbial genomics reveals potential metabolic pathways used by an organism
Prokaryotes use diverse metabolic strategies to obtain energy (aerobic and anaerobic respiration, photosynthesis, and fermentation) and use thes ein biosynthesis. Metabolism can also be harnessed for biotechnology to make microbial fuel cells, biofuels, industrial chemicals, and foods.
3. Prokaryotes regulate gene expression in response to external and internal cues and/or signals
Microorganisms can be classified and indetified using biochemical, immunological, and genetic tests. These methods can also be used to examine mechanisms of microbial evolution.
5. Recombinant DNA technology is used as a tool to address a range of biological questions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 90 minutes 15 N Individual N  Report 1,000 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 90 minutes 20 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Oliver Morton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Microbiology, Minor (0105)