Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1039 Engineering Mathematics and Statistics (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce you to fundamental mathematical concepts crucial for comprehending, interpreting, and resolving contemporary engineering problems. By developing their numeracy skills, you will enhance your problem-solving abilities, critical thinking, and creativity, all of which are transferrable to your future careers and ongoing educational pursuits. Moreover, a grasp of these fundamental principles in mathematics and statistics will empower you to navigate our ever-evolving, complex world. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Perform operations with numbers and use them to process and analyse measurements and quantitative data.
Apply statistical methods to estimate uncertainties and errors using statistical software.
Use algebra, elementary functions and equations to model and solve problems in engineering.
Use geometry and trigonometry to solve problems in engineering.
Apply mathematical concepts and procedures to select and justify problem-solving strategies. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 300 words or equivalent 15 N Individual N  Portfolio 300 words or equivalent 15 N Individual N  Report 1000 words or equivalent 40 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 90 minutes 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Mathematics (MATH)