Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3006 Education in a Cosmopolitan Society Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101661 Coordinator Zainab Mourad Opens in new window Description This subject responds to the question of what it might mean to educate "world teachers" for a cosmopolitan age where classrooms and schools are being shaped by the increasing mobility of ideas, people, technology, media and finance. For some time, multicultural education, as policy and practice, has dominated schooling in Australia. While this was an important period in Australia, times have changed. The globalisation of teaching is one dimension of this change as supranational bodies more and more shape what teachers do. Set against these global agendas are the mobilities that teachers must respond to at the local level. This subject examines cosmopolitan social and education theory as a means to understand these dynamics, framing teachers as agents of change. School Education Discipline Teacher Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the key ideas associated with the concept and the theories of ‘cosmopolitanism’; 
Use theoretical explorations of cosmopolitanism to investigate contemporary ideas about Australian schooling;
Critically analyse the relationship between multiculturalism and cosmopolitanism;
Analyse the process of constructing educational disadvantage;
Critically analyse NSW Department of Education and Communities curriculum documents in the light of the above;
Explain cosmopolitanism through the analysis of multimedia texts;
Apply understanding of concepts in using multimedia. Subject Content Multiculturalism and the ‘cosmopolitan turn’
Cosmopolitan scapes 
Cosmopolitan imagination
Cosmopolitan learning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour for each quiz 40 N Individual Y  Essay 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 slides 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Zainab Mourad Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Teacher Education (TEAC)