Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7076 Media Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Sarah Hook Opens in new window Description This subject analyses various aspects of the laws that regulate the media. The content of the subject includes defamation, contempt, privacy and surveillance and a selection of other laws impacting upon the media industry. It explores two key themes. The first is whether, as a question of policy, current legal restrictions to media freedom appropriately balance the protection of free speech with various other interests, including protection of reputation, personal privacy and the effective administration of justice. The second theme asks whether media laws that were developed to regulate traditional mass-media organisations apply to individuals who publish their own content online, particularly via social media, and, if so, whether this application is appropriately balanced. Analysis of the application of existing media law principles to a range of new technologies will be featured throughout the subject. Students will engage in professional learning activities to demonstrate their application of this body of law in practice. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7072 AND LAWS 7057 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3049 Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 2826 Juris Doctor program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Evaluate the principles, statutes, case law and selected policy aspects in each of defamation, contempt, privacy and prohibited publications
Critically analyse the impact of new technologies on traditional concepts of media law and policy
Apply enhanced legal communication and reasoning skills and effective research strategies to an understanding of current issues in media law
Apply media law concepts to solve practical problems
Demonstrate oral persuasion, legal reasoning and drafting skills to the preparation of court documents and courtroom etiquette Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection On-going 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 1 hour 35 N Group/Individual N  Report 3,500 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)