Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7019 Urban Transformation Studio Global Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301400 Coordinator Ursa Komac Opens in new window Description In this high-level, project unit, students apply theory and practice to their urban transformation project relating to Greater Western Sydney region while being mentored in developing ethical and aesthetic judgement, creative imagination, independent and critical reasoning skills. Students learn to present a project design that is well resolved integrating spatial and experiential quality, contextual, cultural, social and environmental considerations, technical proficiency, and conceptual rigour. The design contributes to the students' portfolio of work demonstrating concept, resolution and presentation design skills leading towards ethical architectural practice as well as showcasing a civic project for Australia's greatest megatropolis. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) ARCH 7015 Practice Research Studio Civic and ARCH 7016 Practice Research Studio Housing and
(HUMN 4001 Research Design 1 or HUMN 4009 Researcher Development 1 Reading Writing and the Business of Research) and
(HUMN 4002 Research Design 2 or HUMN 4010 Researcher Development 2 Proposing and Justifying Research) Equivalent Subjects 301242 Urban Transformation Thesis Studio 2 Restrictions Must be enrolled in 3761 Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply critical thinking, independent judgement for an architectural design project which synthesises the complex range of architectural knowledge, diverse interests, requirements, and constraints within particular social, cultural and environment contexts.
Conduct design processes, investigations and reflections guided by research and evidence.
Communicate design options clearly and concisely in a timely manner in a range of formats (drawings, models, presentations) for diverse audiences (clients, stakeholders, team members).
Produce design options using contemporary three-dimensional modelling and visualisation technologies that demonstrate spatial design skills.
Integrate building, engineering, environmental structures and systems into a project solution.
Create a compelling and coherent design appropriate for the environmental/site context demonstrating ethical and aesthetic judgement, coherence and creativity.
Generate project outcomes that demonstrate an original contribution to architectural body of knowledge and practice, as well as critically reflective and ethical judgement.
Collaborate with others for expert advice and coordination of various project elements in developing knowledge for professional service. Subject Content 1.Complex programmatic project brief and building type in an urban transformation context
2.Developing strategic frameworks, engaging multiple stakeholders, and using a design-synthesis approach to generate design solutions
3.Conduct independent research, analysis, and theory to inform design speculation and propositions
4.Effective integration of building services, structural engineering, transport, fire safety and egress, and environmental systems into a project design
5.Application of skills in architectural detailing and documentation toward implications for procurement and construction
6.Attendance to issues of environmental sustainability, regulation, social, ethical, and disciplinary concern
7.Reflective and research-driven writing to develop an area of specific individual enquiry Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Construction Site Induction Safety (White Card) must be obtained in Semester 1 of program (or prior). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Drawings and/or models and 500 words 10 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 40 N Individual N  Portfolio Drawings and models and 500 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ursa Komac Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761)