Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 3003 Derivatives Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200079 Coordinator Mark Thomas Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the major classes of derivatives: forwards, futures, swaps and options. It examines how these instruments can be used by companies for the purposes of hedging, speculation and arbitrage. Each of these categories of derivatives is examined in some detail. Considerable attention is also given to various models used to price derivative products. The historical background to contemporary risk management is also considered. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ECON 1006 AND
ECON 2002 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 9824 - Risk Management LGYB 9004 - Options Futures and Derivitive Products Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of mathematics and statistics equivalent to that required for 200052, Introduction to Economic Methods. Learning Outcomes Describe the operational mechanics of derivatives trading;
Identify and explain the role of key participants in derivatives markets;
Evaluate the institutional and organisational structure of key derivatives markets;
Examine the theoretical background to the pricing of various types of derivatives;
Illustrate the historical development of derivatives. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 15 N Group Y  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Mark Thomas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mark Thomas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Heath Spong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Finance, Testamur Major (T038) Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Financial Mathematics, Testamur Major (T096)