Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7007 Critical Social Work Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102395 Coordinator Linda Briskman Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the application of critical theories, models and methods of social work practice through the exploration of diverse fields of practice including: child wellbeing and protection; mental health; working with older people; disability; housing and homelessness; LGBTQI social work; and rural and remote practice. The emphasis will be on the contribution of various critical perspectives (Feminist, Post-colonial, Postmodern, Marxist, Green, Critical Race, etc) to social work theory and to the development of alternative forms of practice. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 7023 AND
WELF 7024 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1792 Master of Social Work (Qualifying) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Compare and contrast critical social work practice theories, approaches and models analysing their application in organisational, social and cultural contexts.
Demonstrate an understanding of critical practice skills and of the different ways they can be applied across the spectrum of indirect and direct practice areas, including interpersonal engagement, assessment, professional writing, counselling, health promotion, advocacy and team work.
Engage in critical reflection on the use of self in practice, identifying strengths and areas for further development.
Demonstrate a thorough understanding of the experience of marginalised individuals, groups and communities within a range of different fields of practice, settings, client groups and geographical locations. Subject Content - Examination of various theoretical contributions to critical social work, including:
Human rights
Feminist analysis
Postcolonial and critical whiteness studies
Indigenous world views
Postmodernism
Marxist analysis
Green political theory and environmentalism
- These will be examined across a number of different fields of social work practice, such as:
Child wellbeing and child safety ? including child protection risk assessment
Mental Health- including mental health assessment
Disability ?inclusive and accessible practice
Working with individuals, groups and communities from rural and remote locations
Working with older people
Community Justice
Social work in health settings ? including skills for team and family conferences
International social work ? social work in a global context
LGBTQI social work practice
Housing and homelessness Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation Up to 15 minutes presentation and 5 minutes student discussion 30 N Group Y  Reflection 1, 000 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Linda Briskman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Social Work (Qualifying) (1792)