Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7024 Humanitarian and Development Agendas and Progress Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102577 Coordinator Nichole Georgeou Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to map the emergence of international humanitarian and development agencies from the mid-20th century to the modern day. Students will consider and asses international efforts to end poverty, such as the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the Rome Declaration and Plan of Action on World Food security, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A particular emphasis is placed on developing the skills to gauge the accountability and ethical approaches of humanitarian actors and agencies in global development. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Assumed Knowledge A broad and coherent knowledge, with depth in the underlying principles and concepts in one or more disciplines in Arts or Social Sciences. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and assess enablers and barriers to development from historical, geographical, political, demographic, sociological and economic perspectives, and the various roles of different actors in development processes.
Describe and critically assess current international efforts to end poverty.
Critically consider the accountability and ethical approaches of humanitarian actors and agencies in global development.
Theorise the nexus between humanitarian interventions and development processes.
Critically review the ethical dimensions associated with the militarisation of development aid and humanitarian response. Subject Content 1. The complex interplay of ideas surrounding international response and management of natural and man-made disasters, and the consequent efforts to induce development or to rebuild states.
2. The emergence of international humanitarian and development agencies from the mid-20th century to the modern day.
3. Current International efforts to end poverty, such as the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, the Rome Declaration and Plan of Action on World Food security, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
4. Enablers and barriers to development from historical, geographical, political, demographic, sociological and economic perspectives.
5. Humanitarian and development actors and the various roles they play in intervention and development processes.
6. Accountability and ethical approaches of humanitarian actors and agencies in global development.
Ethical dimensions associated with the militarisation of development aid and humanitarian response. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 750 words 25 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Presentation 2,500 words 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Nichole Georgeou Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies  (1897) Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1868) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1867) Graduate Diploma in Humanitarian and Development Studies (1896) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1866) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)