Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3004 Financial Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200627 Coordinator Amanda Craft Opens in new window Description The subject endeavours to provide students with an understanding of the complex process and contextualisation of the Australian Financial Planning Industry.  This subject aims to introduce students to the principles of personal financial planning and the provision of personal financial advice including the preparation of a Statement of Advice (SOA).  Topics covered include the current Australian regulatory environment, strategies for the accumulation of wealth and risk protection, retirement planning, estate planning, taxation consequences, debt and credit management and home ownership.  This subject meets ASIC requirements (PS146) in  relation to both knowledge and skills. School Business Discipline Banking and Finance Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) FINC 3014 Equivalent Subjects - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Assess client needs in the development of a financial plan/statement of advice
Analyse appropriate strategies for investment, risk management, asset allocation, taxation, superannuation, social security, aged care, and estate issues.
Make decisions using knowledge of the theories and practice involved in personal financial planning
Communicate complex information to clients in a concise, clear, and professional manner
Provide relevant details and possible outcomes of advice using critical thinking, evidence and ethics. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Simulation 20 minutes 40 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Penny Janson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022)