Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7029 Digital Health Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401366 Coordinator Luckman Hlambelo Opens in new window Description Digital health technologies and services are significant contributors to the transformation of healthcare delivery. Uncertainty, abandonment and lack of organisational willingness to adopt, and failure to manage the realisation of business benefits from health information technology investments lead digital technology projects to fail. This subject provides an overview of capability required to enable health organisations to measure and optimise the value of digital health initiatives. Students will be introduced to various concepts and frameworks used to measure and quantify the benefits of digital health in Australia and elsewhere. Students will have opportunities to participate in industry case studies and analysis. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) For students enrolled in 4778 Graduate Diploma in Digital Health and 4698 Master of Health Science 2-year and 15-year pathways
PUBH 7031 Health Systems and Policy
Note Students in the 1 year pathway will need to complete a rule waiver form to enrol in this unit Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique and explain the theoretical underpinnings and processes in benefits management and realisation in digital health
Apply a structured, effective and consistent approach when directing and managing digital health programs and projects.
Evaluate performance to support benefits identification, management and realisation processes and reporting on the value derived from digital health investment.
Apply rigorous assurance including quality, gated, investment, technical, security, financial and architecture reviews on digital health programs and projects
Critically analyse the role of program management, change and organisational culture in digital health benefits management and realisation Subject Content 1.Fundamentals and Foundations of Benefits management and realisation
2.Australia?fs National Digital Health Strategy
3.The digital divide in adoption and use of a Personal Health Record
4.Digital health project and program fundamentals
5.Identifying and assessing benefit dependencies and changes
6.Valuing, assessing and optimising the whole investment
7.Benefit tracking and reporting
8.Maximizing cost efficiency
9.Governance, program assurance and gateways
10.The Change/Benefit Realisation Management (BRM) process
11.Embedding Benefit Realisation Management (BRM) of digital health within an organisation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Diploma in Digital Health (4778) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Public Health (PUBH)