Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3026 Responsive Pedagogies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102676 Coordinator Azadeh Motevali Zadeh Ardakani Opens in new window Description Responsive, respectful and reciprocal relationships with children are a basic tenet of early childhood education and lead to quality outcomes for children. Interactions among children, adults and environments are key to children’s learning. Responsive pedagogies use a relationship-based approach to nurture children and families’ unique dispositions, cultural and social strengths. This subject promotes respectful interactions that are associated with social justice, equity, inclusivity and ethical practice. Responsive interactions require teachers to be engaged, to connect and use diverse, nuanced knowledge of curriculum and content to extend children’s learning and thinking. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have successfully completed 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Examine the connections between responsive pedagogies, the provision of quality early childhood education and care, and outcomes for children.
Identify the unique ways in which socially and culturally diverse families and communities enhance relationships and interactions between children and teachers.
Apply knowledge of child development and theories of learning to analyse childrens’ dispositions, ways of communication and interactions.
Apply pedagogical principles for enhancing reciprocal interactions and positive relationships between children, and between children and adults/teachers.
Develop evidence-based strategies to connect, engage and build trusting relationships with children that enhance play, learning and well-being.
Critique responsive pedagogies for engaging in sustained shared conversations with children that extend children’s interests, play and learning. Subject Content Relationship between quality outcomes for children’s learning and responsive pedagogies 
Children’s language and communication development
Factors influencing children’s interactions, development and learning
Socio-cultural approaches to analysing interactions and relationships
Responsive teaching strategies that scaffold and enhance children’s learning
Responsive pedagogies that support participation and inclusion of children from diverse backgrounds. 
Socially and culturally inclusive community and family approaches, (including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander families and communities) for nurturing relationships with children. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Report 1,200 words 30 N Individual N  Reflection 1,800 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Azadeh Motevali Zadeh Ardakani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)