Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0052 Academic Communication for Policing and Justice (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700335 Coordinator Maria Charalambous Opens in new window Description Communication underpins all aspects of Policing and Justice interaction. This subject is designed to improve the English language skills of Policing and Community and Criminal Justice students through dynamic and engaging teaching methodology. The subject further develops foundational skills students possess and introduces the concept and application of critical analysis. The use of authentic genres and writing techniques common in academic and professional writing in the fields of Policing and Justice lead to the improvement of critical literacy skills related to spoken and written genres. School Western Sydney The College Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 0003 - Academic English (WSTC Prep) LANG 0005 - Academic English (WSTC) LANG 0039 - Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (WSTC Prep) LANG 0040 - Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an ability to critically read, summarise, analyse, synthesise and make meaning from academic and industry-related texts in Policing and Justice
Use advanced aspects of Academic Writing that are transferable to relevant tertiary level degrees, including different genres of Academic English
Demonstrate enhanced academic skills through critically assessing an identified theoretical framework in Policing and Community and Criminal Justice
Cite arguments and evidence using the conventions of academic research
Produce a well-structured, logical, coherent and cohesive response to writing tasks using appropriate academic language structures
Demonstrate an ability to communicate orally in formal context, including appropriate selection of material, clear organisation and effective presentation. Subject Content 1. Academic and professional communication in the fields of Policing and Criminal and Community Justice
2. Academic writing skills: developing and applying features of academic and professional language
3. Academic reading skills: identifying, highlighting and applying key ideas, arguments and evidence
4. Academic Integrity: the importance and application of referencing, citation and paraphrasing
5. Academic writing skills: summarising, paraphrasing, synthesising
6. Academic writing skills: the report writing process including the achievement of coherence and cohesion
7. Critical thinking and reflection for academic and professional work within the Policing and Criminal and Community Justice fields
8. Oral Presentation skills: language and presentation techniques for presentation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 800 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1000 and 300 words (1300 total) 50 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes and 100 words 20 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice (exit only) (7032) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) (exit only) (7167) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Language and Literature (LANG)