Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2030 Health and Physical Education Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102124 Coordinator Zara Ruggero Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Students will work on developing their knowledge and understanding of Health and Physical Education (HPE). This subject is designed to introduce the NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: Personal Development, Health and Physical Education K-10 (incorporating Health and Physical Education K-6). Through an examination of the syllabus, modules and support documents, students will develop the necessary skills to design an effective scope and sequence for K-6 Health and Physical Education (HPE) and develop a program of work suitable for a specific stage of learner K-2. Assessment and evaluation will be addressed and the need to develop descriptive student profiles relating to student achievement of outcomes will be highlighted. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2005 - Personal Development Health and Physical Education 1 (AREP) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the central concepts, modes of enquiry and structure of H and PE, including recent theory and practice, and Aboriginal content embedded in H and PE Syllabus.
Explain the nature and role of H and PE as a discipline for supporting the development of health and wellbeing.
Demonstrate competence in fundamental movement skills through areas such as dance, gymnastics, games and sports and a range of physical activities.
Apply understandings of assessment and children’s learning within the H and PE K-6 key learning area with a focus on K-2.
Utilise a variety of teaching, behaviour and organisational management strategies to cater for the range of diverse learners.
Design and implement programs, lessons and scope and sequence, using knowledge of the NSW syllabuses or other curriculum requirements
Explain the role and value of H and PE in the broader school curriculum.
Select and utilise an array of resources designed to meet the needs of diverse K-2 students in the H and PE K-6 including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander content and catering for students with special needs. Subject Content Active Lifestyle - Ways to be physically active, class games, forming groups, instructing, demonstrating, correcting technique, providing feedback, competition & cooperation, teaching & coaching, safety, learning types, etc. Obstacle courses, Ball games, Circuits / Tabloids, Partner Activities, Effects of physical activity.
Games and Sports - Fundamental Movement Skills & motor development, learning stages, Invasion Games, Game Sense, Primary Schools sports program– Striking games, Net/Wall/Court games, modified games.
Safe Living: Strategies for keeping safe, including Road Safety Unit.
Programming and Planning in Primary Classrooms
Assessment - assessing students’ health and well-being; assessment tools; assessing risk, and risk management practices in the Health and Physical Education (H and PE) space. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,500 words or 15 minute video 50 N Individual Y  Participation 8 hours  S/U N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)