Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3052 Japanese 302 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100092 Coordinator Atomi Ohama Opens in new window Description After covering basic Japanese grammar in previous units, this subject is designed to further improve and extend students' competence in Japanese. It enhances students' knowledge and comprehension of Japanese, and develops their ability to apply this knowledge and comprehension to written and spoken Japanese. In addition to the language skills, this subject covers further aspects of Japanese culture through the recommended texts and class discussions.  Note: This subject is not suitable for native speakers. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Japanese 301 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes communicate orally using advanced Japanese grammar and lexicon;
read and write advanced kanji characters;
apply advanced writing skills in different genres;
demonstrate an advanced level of understanding of the Japanese culture. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz up to 10 minutes weekly 30 N Individual Y  Portfolio Equivalent to approximately 4000 Japanese characters maximum 40 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 2 hours maximum 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Atomi Ohama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)