Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7014 Sustainable Systems Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301003 Coordinator Zuhaib Siddiqui Opens in new window Description This subject teaches students the essential tools available to achieve environmental sustainability in various engineering/construction/industrial design professional settings. The focus of the subject is on the selection and application of methods and processes to achieve sustainable development goals (SDGs) in Australian and global context. The skills gained in this subject will help the student to work in professions such as an environmental engineer, an environmental manager, a sustainability advisor or a sustainability engineer. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Water and Sanitary Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate and select appropriate approaches for achieving sustainable development goals 
Conduct Environmental/Social/Economic Impact Assessment by taking into social, cultural, environmental, and global considerations.
Critically analyse materials and/or energy flow in a chosen project/process/setting and identify improvement options taking into consideration of latest literature.
Conduct Life Cycle Assessment to support decision-making.
Succinctly and effectively communicate assessment outcomes to a range of audience.
Apply Australian environmental regulations correctly to different facts and in different contexts. Subject Content 1. Introduction to sustainable development. 
2. Material and energy flow in the environment and processes.
3. Ecosystems, Ecology. 
4. Social aspects of environment and Environmental ethics. 
5. Sustainability development goals (SDGs). 
6. Food-water-energy nexus 
7. Tools applied in achieving sustainability and case studies   - 
a. Environmental/Economic and Social Impact Assessment, 
b. Environmental auditing 
c. Life Cycle Assessment   
d. Social Impact Assessment  
e. Regulatory, Economic, and Policy tools Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2000 to 3000 words 35 N Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes (per Quiz) 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Report 3000-4000 words   And   Presentation  10 minutes 45 N Group/Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Zuhaib Siddiqui Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Graduate Certificate in Engineering (3695) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Green Cities) (1898) Graduate Diploma in Engineering (exit only) (3694) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Engineering (3693) Master of Science (3749)