Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 3003 Architecture Studio - Rethinking Urbanism Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301200 Coordinator Parisa Ziaesaeidi Opens in new window Description This subject will extend the concept of Urban Transformation, where the architect is an agent of progress and change in the built environment. Students will refine their use of architectural design as a medium for speculation and advocacy in the public realm and in daily life of the city. Rethinking Urbanism will investigate architecture and civic space at the scale of public projects. Students will use various models of three-dimensional representation for communication and experimentation with new ways of building the urban fabric. Assessments will be project-based in real world scenarios and will incorporate sustainable strategies of design. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ARCH 2001 AND
ARCH 2002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3753 Bachelor of Architectural Design. Students not enrolled in 3753 who wish to enrol into this subject should have a 5.0 minimum GPA and are required to discuss with the Academic program Advisor. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply creative design skills and well-considered formal responses to intermediate level architectural scenarios, particularly in relation to a contested urban context.
Evaluate and design mid-rise structural and construction systems and their resulting material and organisational implications, in particular in the building section and plan, demonstrated through iterative testing of design options.
Investigate the multiple and competing factors which influence how urban environments, building morphology, and civic social contexts are constructed and transformed.
Exercise a basic understanding of the relevant codes and standards, the building project cycle, and of the various methods of building procurement.
Evaluate and design architectural and material assemblies through the management of data utilising parametric modelling software and/or scripting.
Evaluate and design architectural and material assemblies through three-dimensional modelling and both physical and digital representation. Subject Content 1. Investigation of Urban Spatial and Architectural design scenarios
2. Architectural Technologies
3. Analysis of context and precedent to inform design decisions
4. Organisation of architectural programs and material assemblies in medium-scale buildings
5. Graphic visualisation and literacy
6. Using construction and material to express architectural ideas Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Construction Site Induction Safety “White Card” – must be obtained in Year 1 of the program. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Drawings and Models and
3 minutes presentation  (per student)
 20 N Group/Individual Y  Applied Project Drawings and Models and  3 minutes presentation
 50 N Individual Y  Applied Project Architectural Drawings and Documentation 20 N Individual Y  Portfolio 300 words plus  visual compendium
 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Aso Haji Rasouli Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Architectural Design (3753)