Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7027 Designing Teaching and Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102086 Coordinator Kay Carroll Opens in new window Description In this unit, students will explore a range of contemporary issues impacting upon adolescent learning in the 21st century and how those issues may be addressed through the thoughtful re-design of teaching and learning. In a future characterised by rapid change and re-conceptualisations of compulsory schooling, attention will be given to the role of the secondary school teacher in assisting their students to develop new ways to think and new ways to work, as well as acquiring new tools and skills for living and working in the 21st century. Students will be encouraged to articulate their own vision for sustainable and engaged secondary education appropriate to the first half of the 21st century. In particular, it is critical that students possess the capacity to develop secondary students' abilities to engage in real world problem solving and collaborate meaningfully through emerging technologies.  Students will collect evidence in an e-portfolio to demonstrate they meet the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the graduate level. Students begin their e-portfolio in 102086 Designing Teaching and Learning and continue to collect evidence throughout their Master of Teaching (Secondary) course. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7081 - Pedagogies in Practice TEAC 7080 - Pedagogies for Learning CART 1003 - Literacies for Learning Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1714, 1848, 1652, 1823, 2804, 1843, 4791, 6013 or 6021. Students enrolled in 1652, 1823, 2804, 1843 or 4791 must have achieved 160 credit points to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6021 must have achieved 190 credit points (160 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject. Students enrolled in 6013 must have achieved 180 credit points  (150 at Level 1 or higher) to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the interrelationship between learning outcomes, literacy and numeracy strategies, the interpretation and reporting of assessment data and content selection using the National Professional Standards for Teachers to inform lesson sequencing and planning.
Analyse through research applications, actions and solutions for preventing and intervening in classroom management events that acknowledge Work, Health and Safety and risk management legislation.
Apply ICT tools in meaningful learning and appropriately integrate the safe and ethical use of Technological Pedagogical and Content Knowledge (TPACK) into teaching.
Organise lesson content, resources and activities based on contemporary syllabus requirements and student learning needs.
Analyse the models of pedagogy for the designing of learning goals and activities for the full range of student abilities, including gifted and talented students, and for addressing the literacy needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and English as an Additional Language or Dialect (EALD) students.
Use resources to evaluate how safe, ethical and responsible use of technology and student differences can impact on how students learn.
Use the National Professional Standards for Teachers to deconstruct a lesson plan and justify how the standards have been achieved.
Analyse key issues underlying research debate to increase own confidence as narrators on the educational research landscape. Subject Content 1.???? How can teachers evaluate the interrelationship between learning outcomes, assessment and literacy strategies to inform lesson sequencing and planning?
2.???? In what ways can analysis of case applications suggest actions and solutions for preventing and intervening in classroom management events?
3.???? How can teachers emphasise the safe, ethical and responsible use of ICT when integrating ICT tools in meaningful learning experiences? How does an understanding of Technological Pedagogical and Content Knowledge (TPACK) inform teaching ?
4.???? How do different learning theories such as the constructivist approach, co-construction of learning, personalised learning contribute to learning in the 21st century?
5.???? How does analysing models of pedagogy and assessment assist in designing learning activities and providing student feedback on learning?
6.???? How can teachers identify ways in which technology and student differences impact on students' learning?
7.???? How can teachers create 21st century learning using teacher standards for the profession?
8.???? In what ways is the self-evaluation of teacher performance significant alongside student achievement of outcomes according to stages of adolescent development?
9.???? In what ways can a global perspective of teaching and learning be acquired in order to develop a personal construction of sustainable practices in the teaching environment? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y  Reflection 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Teacher Education (TEAC)