Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4002 Clinical Education C (Ambulatory Care) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401111 Coordinator Amitabh Gupta Opens in new window Description This clinical education placement will operationalise the theoretical and research knowledge and skills learnt in the first three years of the course. Students will be required to assess and treat clients who present in hospital outpatient departments, community settings and private practices. This involves the assessment of the client's impairments, function and disability within their home and community environment. Interventions may include manual and exercise therapy; use of electrophysical agents, taping and bracing; and education regarding both prevention and management of conditions. Assessment and treatment will tend to have a musculoskeletal physiotherapy focus, however, clients may also present with neurological and cardiorespiratory conditions that require intervention. Students will therefore integrate knowledge and skills learnt across all physiotherapy-specific units in their provision of client-centred care as well as draw on their more general knowledge from earlier stages of the course. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3001 AND
REHA 3018 AND
REHA 3016 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4015 Incompatible Subjects REHA 7002 - Clinical Education C (Ambulatory Care) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy or 4707 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) or 4733 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Display effective communications skills, ethics and professionalism
Plan, justify and conduct an appropriate subjective and objective assessment
Synthesise assessment information to develop and negotiate a client-specific problem list and treatment plan in consultation with the client
Justify and implement evidence-based and effective management strategies
Justify treatment decisions based on theory, research and the interpretation of outcome measurement
Monitor, evaluate and progress treatments as indicated
Demonstrate safe and ethical work practices, respecting the culture and diversity of the client and other health professionals Subject Content Theory, research and practice, within an outpatient and private practice physiotherapy context, to: Ambulatory care physiotherapy contexts refer to outpatient and private practice settings where the physiotherapist may need to diagnose and treat the client as a primary care practitioner. The focus is on assessing and treating client impairments, function and disability in home and community settings. There may be a musculoskeletal physiotherapy focus, but the placement is not limited to this area of physiotherapy.  Appropriate clinical facilities would include hospital and community outpatient physiotherapy services and private practice. Inpatient ward settings are not appropriate for this clinical placement. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 5 weeks (APP) 80 Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Amitabh Gupta Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Amitabh Gupta Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)