Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 3014 Engineering Science Project 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300968 Coordinator Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window Description In this unit, the focus will be on development of research and presentation skills of students, which will be achieved through employment of appropriate research skills on a capstone project. It will demonstrate student's knowledge by conducting an engineering project and completion of a technical report. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 3013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3691 Bachelor of Engineering Science, 6033 Diploma in Engineering/Bachelor of Engineering Studies or 7117 Diploma in Engineering/Bachelor of Engineering Studies and must have successfully completed 180 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: apply theoretical knowledge gained during the course to develop practical engineering solutions;
apply project management principles to an engineering project;
demonstrate a understanding of the importance of client/end-user consultation and satisfaction;
develop engineering communication skills related to oral presentation and engineering report writing; and
implement the ethical, social, economic and environmental responsibilities of an engineer in the context of an engineering project. Subject Content 1. Development of integrated practical and innovative solutions to engineering problems.
2. Application of engineering project management skills.
3. Client/end-user consultation process and satisfaction assessment.
4. Development of good oral and written presentation skills appropriate for an engineer.
5. Evaluation of the social, economic and environmental impacts of an engineering project.
6. Application of risk analysis, time and financial management skills to an engineering project
7. Development of research skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 30-40 pages 15 N Group N  Presentation 20 minutes each group, 20 PowerPoint Slides, group work 20 N Group/Individual N  Report 50-70 pages. 65 Y Group/Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)