Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 6002 Neuromorphic Sensing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800233 Coordinator Alexandre Marcireau Opens in new window Description Neuromorphic sensors offer a new way to electronically sense and process data that have a unique structure based on principles found in biology. Understanding how they operate is integral to their effective use in practical situations, to the development of algorithms, process their data, and to the optimisation of their electronic designs. This subject focuses primarily on neuromorphic vision sensors, which are rapidly being adopted by multiple industries, including exciting applications in automotive and space. Students will develop an in-depth understanding of neuromorphic sensors and the skills to operate a neuromorphic sensor for acquiring data and solving real-world problems. This practical experience is in high demand from both research labs and the industry. School Graduate Research School Discipline Algorithms Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 8124 Master of Applied Neuromorphic Engineering Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of: Learning Outcomes Synthesize the characteristics of a scene using data captured by an event-based vision sensor
Evaluate the differences between frame and event-based sensors
Design an experimental setup to gather valuable data from a neuromorphic sensor with a deep appreciation of different neuromorphic sensor characteristics
Assess the suitability of visio-tactile neuromorphic sensing for a real-world application
Critically appraise legal, ethical and cultural issues and considerations in the context of the emerging field of Neuromorphic research
Report data and analysis in accordance with professional standards Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Viva Voce 3000 words or equivalent 20 N Group Y  Report 1000 words or equivalent 30 N Individual Y  Practical 4000 words or equivalent 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gregory Cohen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Graduate Diploma in Neuromorphic Engineering (exit only) (8125) Master of Applied Neuromorphic Engineering (8124) Master of Neuromorphic Engineering (8123)