Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1006 Discrete Mathematics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200025 Coordinator Charles Zworestine Opens in new window Description Discrete Mathematics introduces set theory, symbolic logic, graph  theory and some counting techniques. The subject develops mathematical thinking and builds problem solving skills. It provides a solid foundation for further study in mathematics or computing. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0448 - Discrete Mathematics (UWSC) Incompatible Subjects MATH 2004 - Discrete Structures and Complexity Assumed Knowledge HSC Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Decide the truth of logical statements involving connectives, and simplify logical expressions using the laws of logic and truth tables
Give simple proofs by induction and contradiction;
Define and recognise primes, factorise small integers, use the Euclidean algorithm, and do calculations with modular arithmetic;
Perform simple operations on sets, find Cartesian products of sets, and use Venn diagrams to illustrate relationships between sets;
Solve basic problems in counting and probability;
Recognize a function, decide whether a given function is one-to-one or onto, and perform elementary manipulations with functions;
Describe simple and directed graphs, use concepts such as "path", and find minimal spanning trees Subject Content 1. Sets: definitions, subsets, equality, operations, properties, empty set. 2. Counting and probability: Introduction, permutations and combinations, counting rules. 3. Functions: one-to-one, onto, inverse functions, composition. 4. Logic: logical connectives, equivalence, conditional statements, contrapositive, converse, valid arguments, predicates, quantifiers. 5.  Number theory and mathematical proof: division, direct proof, counter-examples, division into cases, proof by contradiction and contraposition. 6.  Induction and recursion: examples, sequences, sigma and product notation. 7.  Graphs and trees: paths, circuits, isomorphisms of graphs, definitions, spanning trees, Kruskal's algorithm. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 5 minutes each 10 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 45 minutes 20 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 45 minutes 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Charles Zworestine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Charles Zworestine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Charles Zworestine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Charles Zworestine Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Bachelor of Computer Science (3506) Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Bachelor of Data Science (3769) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Bachelor of Mathematics (3778) Computer Science (COMP) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Education Studies - Primary Mathematics Teaching Specialisation, Major (0188) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Enterprise Systems and Architectures, Testamur Major (T151) Game Programming, Testamur Major (T061) Information Systems (INFS) Mathematics (MATH) Mathematics Teaching Specialisation (Birth - 5/Birth -12), Minor (0157) Mathematics, Major (0059) Mathematics, Minor (0059) Other information Technology (INFO) Secondary Mathematics Education, Major (0350) Software Development, Minor (0329) Software Development, Testamur Major (T148) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105)