Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3018 Web Systems Development (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300902 Coordinator Weisheng Si Opens in new window Description This subject teaches state-of-the-art web frameworks for developing complex web systems. This subject utilises the skills of basic web programming, database design, and systems analysis that students have learnt in previous subjects. Major topics in this subject include Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) framework, Razor pages, Model-View-Controller (MVC) programming, object to relational database mapping, and authentication and authorization. Moreover, this subject trains students' collaborative skills by asking students to build a complex website in a small team. As an advanced subject, deeper topics such as custom data validation and error handling will be discussed. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 2020 Incompatible Subjects INFS 3017 Web Systems Development Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 3684 Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology (Advanced) or 3688 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced. Assumed Knowledge - Fundamental web development skills such as HTML, CSS, Javascript and PHP.
- Principles of relational database design and development, practical skills in SQL.
- Principles of systems analysis and design including the specification of end-user requirements and a good knowledge of the SDLC and its application to solving computer system related problems. Learning Outcomes Apply CSS framework to lay out and style website
Apply LINQ to construct database queries
Apply Entity Framework Core to bind objects with database records
Implement both client-side and server-side data validation
Implement dynamic webpages with Razor syntax
Apply MVC framework to develop web systems
Implement user authentication and authorization for web systems
Apply collaborative skills to work in a team in developing complex web systems
Implement custom session states needed by web systems
Apply error handling techniques to build robust web systems Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 50 to 60 hours to complete over a period of 12 weeks 50 N Individual N  Applied Project 30 to 40 hours to complete over a period of 13 weeks 25 N Group Y  Final Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Information Systems (INFS)