Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 0009 Mathematics 2 (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900086 Coordinator Zdenka Misanovic Opens in new window Description This subject has been specifically designed for students who need to refresh or upgrade their understanding of basic mathematical concepts taught in high school mathematics.  The topics include basic arithmetic and algebra, elementary functions, geometry, trigonometry and coordinate geometry. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects MATH 0008 - Mathematics 2 (WSTC Prep) Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College. Assumed Knowledge Year 10 Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Select and apply a variety of algebraic techniques to solve equations and problems.
Solve geometric and trigonometric problems that involve two and three dimensional objects.
Use the concept of a function and the relationship between dependent and independent variables to solve a variety of problems both algebraically and graphically.
Use algebra to solve geometrical problems in Cartesian and polar coordinate systems.
Apply a variety of strategies to find mathematical models for problems involving exponential and logarithmic functions.
Demonstrate an ability to solve problems by identifying interrelationships between ideas from different areas of mathematics.
Interpret and communicate mathematical ideas in a clear and effective manner, using logical arguments and appropriate notation. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 10 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 25 N Individual Y  Numerical Problem Solving 1 hour 25 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Mathematics (MATH)