Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7027 Employment Relations Professional Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200717 Coordinator Khalida Malik Opens in new window Description Employment Relations Professional Practice concentrates on communicating and performing as employment relations professionals.  Students practice the activities undertaken by professionals, such as advocacy and presentation, team work, information and knowledge management, research, analysis and problem solving, and producing reports, policies and analytical essays, with opportunities for feedback. The focus is knowledge of the ER professions, such as the role, function and ethics of human resource managers, industrial officers and the role of professional bodies in Australia and internationally. Support for academic practice will accompany professional activities.  The subject is designed for those wanting to build a career in employment relations. School Business Discipline Human Resource Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of human resource management objectives and functions from undergraduate study or work experience; it is recommended that students complete this subject in the same quarter as 200718 Human Resource Management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the kinds of activities and work that they will be expected to perform and ethical and political challenges they will encounter as an employment relations professional in a number of contexts to bring knowledge and study to life through responsible engagement and appreciation of competing stakeholder perspectives;
Simulate the behaviours required of employment relations professionals to become a credible activist, such as successful advocacy, negotiation and feedback practices;
Apply the Australian Human Resource Institute criteria of professional practice to the areas of professional practice discussed in the subject;
Explain the value of working as a team, diagnose problems that can arise, and make recommendations to enhance team performance as progress towards becoming a stakeholder manager and a culture and change agent;
Undertake some career planning activities as progress towards developing management knowledge through applied intellectual inquiry in discipline contexts. Subject Content 1. Characteristics of professional work; role and functions of employment relations professionals
2. Dynamics of teams and groups
3. Working in the technology and information age; HR technology and knowledge management
4. Library and internet research for employment relations professionals
5. Learning for professional practice; feedback and coaching; reflective practice
6. Introduction to negotiation practice
7. Ethics and challenges for employment relations professionals
8. Work health and safety (WHS)
9. Winning your case: writing and speaking persuasively
10. Analysis and problem solving for professional practice
11. Building an employment relations career Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words in total 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 30 N Group Y  Reflection 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Khalida Malik Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Human Resource Management, Major (0134) Master of Human Resource Management (2798) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)