Academic Handbook Current Edition PHYS 3006 Classical Physics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301262 Coordinator Timothy Stait-Gardner Opens in new window Description This subject covers the key components of classical physics to the advanced level expected of a physics major. Newtonian mechanics will focus on realistic problems, in three dimensions and in the presence of friction and drag. Electromagnetism introduces Maxwell's equations, and applies them in the presence of matter. Thermodynamics is presented rigorously, focusing on the most general forms of the first and second laws. We will also introduce the basic elements of statistical physics. Fluids and waves will introduce the basic equations of fluids, and in particular the full (PDE) wave equation and its solution. School Science Discipline Physics And Astronomy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PHYS 1006 Incompatible Subjects CHEM 2003 Classical Physics and Applied Technologies Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge Introductory mechanics: Newton’s laws, work, conservation of energy and momentum. Introductory Electrostatics: Electric forces and Coulomb’s law. Introduction to Magnetic fields: production by magnets & currents, magnetic forces on currents & charges; Induced EMF and Faraday’s law. Basic thermodynamic principles of heat, energy and temperature. Mathematics: integral and differential calculus, vectors. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 60 minutes 25 N Individual N  Practical 500 words each 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Miroslav Filipovic Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Physics and Astronomy (PHYS) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119)