Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 2002 Database Design and Development (Advanced) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300941 Coordinator Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window Description This subject covers the principles, methodologies and technologies for the database design and development, exploring in particular the data modelling methods and the use of the language SQL for the database applications. The subject also examines a number of important database concepts such as database administration, concurrency, backup and recovery, and security. Students in this advanced subject are furthermore required to investigate new technological and theory advances in the database industry and apply them to the solution of concrete database problems. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Database Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4371 - Database Management System for Business Information Systems INFS 2001 - Database Design and Development Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3685 Bachelor of Computing (Information Systems) Advanced, 3684 Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology (Advanced), 3688 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced, 3745 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business or 2801 Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws. Assumed Knowledge Basic programming skills, including variable declaration, variable assignment, selection statement and loop structure. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe components of a database system, advantages and disadvantages of a database system, roles peoples play and the historical development of a database system in the context of a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).
Apply basic skills in database modeling, including ER diagrams and normalization in RDBMS.
Explain the basic concepts of relational algebra and apply them in queries.
Describe the general concepts of transaction management.
Identify concepts in database administration.
Describe concepts in database security and backup.
Define and manipulate data using structured query language (SQL)
Design and develop a database for a business application using a commercial database management system
Investigate and apply advanced database techniques such as higher normal forms, stored procedures, triggers, indexes and limited data denormalization Subject Content Introduction to database concepts and ANSI Spark 3 level architecture.
Concepts in data modeling.
Integration of data and data independence.
Translating a case study into relational concepts and integrity constraints.
Introduction to relational algebra.
Data Modelling: Conceptual, logical and physical database design.
Data definition and manipulation using SQL.
EER concepts with generalisation and specialisation.
Anomalies in databases and database normalisation.
Introduction to database security and administration.
Introduction to transaction management, concurrency and locking.
Higher normal forms, stored procedures, triggers, indexes, and limited data denormalization. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study maximum 2000 words in no more than 20 pages 23 N Group/Individual N  Applied Project maximum 2000 words (excluding SQL source code) in no more than 20 pages 27 N Group/Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zhuhan Jiang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Computer Science (Advanced) (3634) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Computer Science (COMP) Information Systems (INFS)