Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 3029 Intercultural Music Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102857 Coordinator Nicholas Ng Opens in new window Description In this capstone subject students collaboratively research and create an intercultural music performance, incorporating Diaspora and Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples) Australian musics and their interaction with global intercultural music perspectives.  Collaboration may include musicians from diverse communities in relation to the UN cultural diversity mandate. Activities such as performance, composition, arranging, sound engineering, music administration and other industry-related work will occur in integrated learning contexts and/or placement opportunities that have practical creative or project management outcomes. This subject provides training in music business and personal branding towards creating visibility of cultures and personal creative identity, and it allows students to work as individuals or in groups to build on skills and knowledge developed through their degree. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 3019 - Professional Music Project PERF 3012 - Music Project PERF 3026 - Applied Professional Music Contexts Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Plan and execute an intercultural creative project in a university and/or community context.
Identify and respond to global, Diaspora and Indigenous Australian intercultural perspectives in intercultural music project development.
Apply knowledge of the practical aspects of the music industry and its diverse nature, especially across identity, diversity, pluralism, and hybridity, to creative projects.
Present a professional online profile with an intercultural diversity mandate or purpose related to personal creative identity.
Apply knowledge of personal or group branding in a professional context in way that promotes social diversity. Subject Content Professional skills and knowledge applied to intercultural music projects, with the inclusion of Diaspora and Indigenous Australian approaches to music.
Technical and theoretical skills and knowledge applied to individual and collaborative work within managed project outcomes.
Professional communication strategies, including online site/s with LinkedIn and social media connections.
Music business and personal branding knowledge applied to collaborative intercultural performances.
Cultural engagement towards UN cultural diversity aims, especially identity, diversity, pluralism and hybridity towards vibrance. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal a) 700 words b) 1,000 25 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 15 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 10 minutes (performance), 5–10 (multimedia) 40 N Group/Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Nicholas Ng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music for Primary Teaching, Minor (0210) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF)