Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1012 Foundations of Entrepreneurship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200979 Coordinator Claire Lewin Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the necessary foundations for starting a business and entrepreneurship. Students will be introduced to the Australian business environment and key principles for setting up an entrepreneurial and competitive Business within that environment. Students will be exposed to theories and frameworks on entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial processes, and new and emerging entrepreneurship issues. Students will apply knowledge gained through completing a Business Model Canvass (BMC) case study of a real start-up company or completing a BMC of their own entrepreneurial venture (for students already undertaking an entrepreneurial project). School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify key requirements for setting up a small business in the Australian business environment;
Identify key processes for setting up a small business;
Apply knowledge on entrepreneurship frameworks and processes through analysing a real-life start-up company;
Demonstrate ability to write succinctly and clearly in a manner that appeals to a wide audience;
Demonstrate ability to verbally communicate clearly and effectively to a wide audience. Subject Content The 21st century entrepreneur in an Australian business environment
Entrepreneurship: Introduction to theory and practice
Entrepreneurship in practice: Creativity and innovation
Entrepreneurial opportunities, Innovation and the draft business plan
Entrepreneurial financing
Managing entrepreneurial functions
Legal and ethical aspects of entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship, small business management and developing the business
Entrepreneurship in society: Corporate, social, indigenous and family Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,750 words 40 N Individual Y  Quiz 40 min 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Reflection 20 minutes S/U N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Claire Lewin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Claire Lewin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Business and Management (BUSM) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)