Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2025 Design Graphics: Engineering Documentation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301287 Coordinator Michael Chapman Opens in new window Description Current and future growth in the areas of product design, virtual reality, and high technology innovation industries require a foundation and working knowledge of 3D computer modelling. In this subject students will be introduced to 3D modelling software and the fundamental principles of current Australian Standards for engineering drawing and documentation. The skills gained will contribute to preparation for future complex projects in engineering, industrial design and creative industries that require prototyping, files for additive manufacturing (3D printing), and component designs that can perform at exact specifications and standards. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 2011 - Graphics 2 Visual Simulation Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the principles of AS1100 to specify designed products and parts.
Use and interpret standard conventions used in engineering drawing.
Generate 2D part(s) and assembly engineering drawings using computer-aided design.
Communicate manufacturing requirements for designed parts and product assemblies using CAD software (engineering and reverse engineering).
Use 3D CAD modelling to design parts.
Design products specific to a variety of manufacturing processes. Subject Content Introduction to 3D modelling
Introduction to engineering drawing AS1100
Manufacturing processes
Materials specifications Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 20 x CAD exercises; & 10 sketchbook exercises  15 N Individual Y  Annotated Bibliography 15 parts 3D Modelling and Full set of Engineering Drawings (30 pages) 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project 15 parts 3D Modelling and Full set of Engineering Drawings (30 pages) 45 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michael Chapman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Michael Chapman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Michael Chapman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Automation, Minor (0123) Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Computer Aided Design (Mechatronics), Concentration (0125) Industrial Manufacturing, Minor (0085) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Visualisation and Graphics, Major (0080) Visualisation, Minor (0083) ​Computer Aided Design (Mechatronics), Minor (0125)