Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7006 Urban Planning Placement Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102604 Coordinator Andrew Gorman-Murray Opens in new window Description This Urban Planning Placement Project subject provides Master of Urban Management and Planning and Master of Planning students with an understanding of the planning/urban management workplace. Students are placed with local planning or urban management employers to work on a variety of planning tasks. Placements are structured for student engagement in professional work in planning. Placement agencies ensure that students are supervised by experienced planners, are mentored through site visits and work on planning projects in a professional capacity. Agreements with supervisors and clear communication lines are set to clarify student engagement and their involvement in meaningful professional tasks that contribute to an authentic learning experience, rather than simply unpaid or irrelevant labour. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1297 - Urban Management Placement Project LGYC 4646 - Urban Management Placement Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1873 Master of Urban Management and Planning or 1712 Master of Planning. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appreciate the role and function of the relevant employers in the NSW Planning/Urban Management system through engagement in professional planning work.
Understand the role of planners/urban managers through interactions with and supervision from experienced planners in the workplace.
Critically reflect on the learning they have gained in their workplace in demonstration of the links between theoretical knowledge of the discipline and its practical application.
Demonstrate the planning skills and knowledge acquired in their academic training in consideration of the ethical dimensions, issues and relevant guidelines when working in a professional context. Subject Content 1. An introduction to work based learning, as part of a professional practice-oriented course that delivers advanced knowledge and practical skills applicable in the urban management and planning profession.
2. Compilation of a detailed professional reflective journal for the production of a critical reflective report
3. Interview skills, and building a professional relationship with a prospective employer
4. Seventy hours of professional work placement.
5. Mid placement seminar and journal review Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Reflective report on learning from workplace based on workplace journal 3000 words 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Andrew Gorman-Murray Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873)