Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 7028 Strategic Property Market Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201009 Coordinator Peter Hunt Opens in new window Description Students will develop an understanding of the property industry and its role in the investment context, as well as the collection and analysis of property data. Markets, institutional property portfolios, the role of Government policy, and the controls that affect development, residential valuation and application of economic theory to property development will also be studied. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the role of property in the investment context;
Apply economic theory to land use and property development;
Critically evaluate the sources of property data and analyse the data;
Evaluate the role of Government and its effect on Property Decision Making;
Critically examine the various inherent, external and statutory controls on property development;
Apply industry reporting standards and ethics; Subject Content 1. Property economics
2. The property profession
3. Supply and demand
4. Highest and best use and city growth pattern
5. Introduction to Land Law including native title
6. Government and property taxation
7. Concepts of value and valuation methods
8. Valuation instructions, valuation reports and ethics
9. Property data sources, collection and analysis
10. Advanced data analysis and big data
11. Property inspection and valuation of residential property Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,300 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 2,300 words 60 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peter Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Za Manaf Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Property Investment (2814) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)