Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 4003 Mobile Robotics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300043 Coordinator Gu Fang Opens in new window Description To develop an understanding of the basic concepts involved in Mobile Robotics. The areas of mobile robot mechanics, localisation, map building and path planning of mobile robots will be introduced. Various sensors and their applications in mobile robotics are also to be introduced. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1018 Restrictions Successful completion of 160 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and classify the different types of mechanical structures of mobile robots.
Examine the issues of localisation in mobile robots.
Examine and apply the map building and path planning techniques used in mobile robotics
Evaluate various sensors and assess their applications in mobile robots Subject Content Mechanics of Mobile robots
Localisation, map-building and path planning
Sensors and sensing techniques.
Actuators for mobile robots
Recent development in mobile robots Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 30 hours 60 N Group/Individual Y  Practical 30 minutes for each lab session 16 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes each 24 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Gu Fang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Automation, Concentration (0123) Automation, Minor (0123) Computer Science (COMP) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Robotics, Minor (0275)