Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7023 Safe and Sustainable Construction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301190 Coordinator Laura Melo C E De Almeida Opens in new window Description This subject introduces two important aspects of construction projects: workplace safety and sustainability. Safety and sustainability are crucial issues in the upper echelons of the construction industry. This subject is intended to explore the theoretical frameworks and best practices to support health and safety in construction projects. It introduces various assessment tools and techniques that can be used to measure and improve sustainability in construction projects. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have basic knowledge in building and construction. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse legal economic and ethical issues related to Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) in the construction industry;
Develop strategies to improve health and safety performance of construction projects;
Understand concepts and principles of sustainable development;
Analyse appropriate sustainability assessment tools and carbon management approaches for construction projects;
Conduct economic assessments such as whole-life cost (WLC), Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) and others for construction projects. Subject Content Theories and best practices in Workplace Health & Safety in the construction industry.
Legal, economic and ethical issues related to Workplace Health and Safety.
The concept of sustainability and the sustainable development agenda.
Sustainability assessment method and techniques.
Managing carbon emissions in construction.
Whole life costing.
Cost benefit analysis and other techniques in assessing development projects. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2000 words 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Report 4000 words and 15 minutes 60 N Both (Individual & Group) Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Laura Melo C E De Almeida Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Public Health (PUBH)