Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3012 Out-of-hospital Medical Care 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401096 Coordinator Navin Naidoo Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to extend the foundational knowledge relating to the assessment and management of medical presentations across the spectrum of acuity, including, gastrointestinal, renal, genitourinary, gynaecological and endocrine medical emergencies, sepsis, ear/nose/throat presentations and complex co-morbid conditions. 
The unit combines pathophysiological principles with development of skills in the use and interpretation of diagnostic technology with clinical decision-making to implement advanced life support.
Students will investigate fundamental elements of paramedic practice relating to medicolegal documentation, risk assessment and clinical reasoning relating to determination of patient disposition. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1009 AND
NATS 1010 AND
HLTH 2015 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 3014 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify patient presentations and select appropriate prehospital treatment plans.
Integrate patient history and pathophysiology of gastrointestinal, renal, gynaecological, genitourinary and endocrine emergencies into the prehospital assessment and treatment.
Discuss the epidemiology and consequences of gastrointestinal, renal, gynaecological, genitourinary, sepsis and endocrine emergencies.
Provide an evidence-based justification for guidelines relating to gastrointestinal, renal, gynaecological, genitourinary, sepsis and endocrine emergencies.
Demonstrate safe and appropriate assessment and management skills for gastrointestinal, renal, gynaecological, genitourinary, sepsis and endocrine emergencies. Subject Content Pathophysiology, patient assessment and out-of-hospital management of:
1. Gastrointestinal emergencies
2. Renal emergencies
3. Gynaecological and genitourinary emergencies
4. Endocrine emergencies
5. Sepsis, Complex and co-morbid Patient presentations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Literature Review 2500 words 30 N Group N  Viva Voce Up to 60 minutes 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Navin Naidoo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)