Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 3003 Commercial Property Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200600 Coordinator Kamel Taoum Opens in new window Description This subject examines the operation of commercial property management as a discrete professional discipline of the property industry. Students examine the fundamental principles of the day-to-day management of the various classes of mainstream commercial investment property. In this subject, students acquire an understanding of the various roles, duties, obligations and legal liabilities of the Commercial Property Manager. Various legislative and statutory provisions are explored, as well as the inter-relationship of commercial property management with the professional disciplines of asset management, investment management and portfolio management, and other sectors of the property Industry. Students also gain an understanding of contemporary commercial leasing practice and the relationships which operate between the building owner, the building manager, and commercial tenants, including the interests and objectives of all concerned parties. School Business Discipline Real Estate Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYC 0055 - Commercial Property Management Restrictions External offerings for this subject are only available to students who are enrolled in a Property program or field of study. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that candidates attempting this subject are already in possession of a basic understanding of the nature of commercial real estate as an investment and asset class. It is assumed that this level of understanding includes a familiarity with the fundamental characteristics of retail, industrial and office-building properties, plus the sub-markets existing within each of those use categories, and how the characteristics differ between these three prime categories of commercial property use. It is also assumed that, prior to entry into this subject, students already possess a rudimentary understanding of investment analysis, risk analysis and financial appraisal (i.e. valuation) techniques, principles and practice as they apply to commercial real estate. Learning Outcomes Explain the wide-ranging nature of the roles, objectives, duties, instructions and obligations inherent in commercial property management, and the economic and market forces which influence them;
Explain the various legislative provisions, legal obligations and professional liability issues affecting commercial property management;
Demonstrate a sound understanding of the distinctive characteristics of each of the mainstream classes of commercial investment property (retail, industrial, & office buildings) and the manner in which those characteristics dictate the specialist property management considerations in each category;
Explain the professional relationships and synergies which occur between the discipline of commercial property management and those of property investment, property development, marketing, leasing, research, valuation, portfolio asset and facilities management. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,500 words excluding attachments, disclaimers, figures/ tables; table of contents and reference list. 50 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kamel Taoum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta External Online Subject Contact Kamel Taoum Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Property, Testamur Major (T047) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)