Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 5001 Crime Scene Investigation (PG) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mark Williams Opens in new window Description A substantial amount of forensic evidence used in the prosecution of criminal cases is initially established at the crime scene. Recognising, detecting, recovering, preserving, and recording this evidence forms a critical function within forensic science and criminal investigation. This subject explores the main aspects of crime scene investigation, including: crime scene processes, recognition of evidence, documentation of crime scenes, evidence detection and enhancement, maintaining evidence integrity, and bloodstain pattern analysis. It also covers professional practices associated with evidence handling and case file management. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS7006 Crime Scene Investigation (PG) Restrictions Must be enrolled in the Master of Forensic Science, the Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science, or the Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of general science as obtained via an undergraduate science degree (with completion of chemistry and biology subjects highly recommended) Learning Outcomes Describe the general approach to crime scene examination.
Utilise the range of evidence types that may be present at a crime scene and describe appropriate search, recovery, and preservation methods for each evidence type.
Articulate the requirements of good crime scene photography and case file management practices.
Demonstrate professional practices associated with maintaining evidence integrity and continuity.
Report evidence and conclusions from crime scene investigations accurately and in an appropriate format.
Reflect on Indigenous perspectives as they relate to professional activities as a crime scene examiner. Subject Content Crime Scene Principles
Role of the Crime Scene Examiner
Crime Scene Photography
Fingerprints and DNA Evidence
General Physical Evidence
Bloodstain Pattern Analysis
Specialised Scene Examinations
Indigenous Australia – Cultural Awareness and Contributions to Forensic Science
Case File Management and Report Writing Special Requirements Essential equipment Students will require internet access via a laptop or desktop computer (the unit is delivered via a web browser) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam  100 N Individual N Teaching Periods Uni of Florida - Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Mark Williams Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science (3743) Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science (3742) Master of Forensic Science (3741) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)