Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1048 Engineering Materials (UG Cert) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 500066 Coordinator Maisha Tabassum Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce fundamentals of engineering materials.  The topics will include materials structure, properties, processing and applications, degradation of materials, sustainability and the selection of materials for various engineering applications. School Eng, Design & Built Env Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1008 Engineering Materials ENGR 1014 Engineering and Design Concepts ENGR 1009 Engineering Materials (WSTC AssocD) ENGR 1010 Engineering Materials (WSTC) ENGR 1034 Engineering and Design Concepts (WSTC) LGYB 0481 Engineering and Design Concepts (WSTC AssocD) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the program : 7178 Diploma of Aerotropolis Industry 4.0 (Mechatronic Skills) or 7182 Undergraduate Certificate in Engineering Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and identify the atomic structure, bonding, crystal structure and defects of materials.
Explain the various properties of materials (eg mechanical, thermal, electrical, optical, magnetic).
Identify and explain the mechanical failures, corrosion and degradation of materials and how to prevent them.
Select an appropriate material for a given application.
Apply sustainability principles in engineering practice. Subject Content 1.Atomic structure and interatomic bonding
2.Crystalline structure and defects in solids
3.Various properties of materials (mechanical, thermal, electrical, magnetic and optical)
4.Metals, ceramics and glasses, polymers, composites and advanced materials
5.Diffusion and phase diagrams
6.Corrosion and degradation of materials
7.Materials selection
8.Materials and sustainability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Real-world problem diagnosis and analysis (Part A) 450 words 15 N Individual   Real-world problem diagnosis and analysis (Part B)  450 words 15 N Individual   Lab analysis & report: Crystal structures 600 words 20 N Individual   Lab analysis & report: Mechanical properties 600 words equivalent 20 N Individual   Case study: Material selection and eco-audit 900 words 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Diploma in Aerotropolis Industry 4.0 (Mechatronics Skills) (7178) Diploma in Aerotropolis Industry 4.0 (Mechatronics Skills)/Bachelor of Engineering Science (6046) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)