Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 7005 Complex Cases and Professional Issues Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401049 Coordinator Daniel Thomson Opens in new window Description From 2018 students should take 401108 Complex Cases and Professional Issues. In this subject, students will further develop their clinical reasoning with respect to clients with complex presentations. A framework will be presented, which synthesises complex information such as the theory, research and skills in musculoskeletal, cardiorespiratory and neurological physiotherapy across the lifespan, and theories related to professionalism, ethics, safety and communication. This framework will be applied to the area of Intensive Care, where students will develop further knowledge and skills in specific cardiorespiratory techniques such as manual hyperinflation and suctioning. This subject also contains the discussion of a range of recent professional developments in physiotherapy, which are relevant to entry level practitioners. These include registration as a physiotherapist, continuing education, workload control strategies, duty of care responsibilities and quality improvement processes (including critical reflection), employment strategies and career pathways. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3001 AND
REHA 3014 AND
REHA 7018 AND
REHA 3004 Co-requisite(s) REHA 7001 OR
REHA 7002 OR
REHA 7003 OR
REHA 7004 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy, 4667 Master of Physiotherapy or 4668 Bachelor of Health Science (Honours)/Master of Physiotherapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Synthesise complex assessment information, using clinical reasoning and client-centred approaches to design and critically reflect on a management plan for clients with complex presentations
Plan, justify, implement, and evaluate a safe and effective treatment of the impairments and activity limitations in clients with respiratory failure with and without multi-system co-morbidities
Critically reflect on a clinical scenario with respect to professionalism, ethics, safety and communication
Synthesise the contributions of physiotherapy study, personal interests and opportunities in physiotherapy to develop a personal, targeted employment strategy
Demonstrate effective verbal and written communication skills Subject Content 1. Integration of physiotherapy knowledge developed from previous university-based and clinically-based physiotherapy with the theory of professionalism, ethics, safety and communication (clinical reasoning) to plan management strategies for clients with complex presentations
2. Evidence-based management of clients with respiratory failure requiring assisted ventilation
3. Recent professional developments in physiotherapy, such as registration as a physiotherapist continuing education, workload control strategies, quality improvement processes, and career pathways
4. Employment strategies, considering desires and personal attributes as well as attainment of the UWS Physiotherapy Graduate Attributes and the Standards for Physiotherapy (2006) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Group Assignment 1,500 words 25 N Group   Individual Assignment 2,500 words 45 N Individual   Skills Test 10 skills Pass/Fail Y Individual   Written Exam – ICU theory and complex case study 2 hours 30 Y Individual Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)