Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3003 Coaching Sport and Recreation Activities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401169 Coordinator Andrew Bennie Opens in new window Description Coaching Sport and Recreation Activities offers students with a learning experience based on the principles of physical education and sports coaching in variety of sports and recreational activities. This subject builds upon physical activity instruction and teaching games for understanding (game sense) introduced in earlier subjects. You will have the opportunity to plan, implement, and reflect on your own teaching practice during tutorials and within community sport contexts. You will learn to see things from multiple perspectives based on content delivered by university staff, peers, and external sport organisations. The subject incorporates experience in meaningful situations that will help prepare you for work in a dynamic field of education. This subject includes approximately 35 hours of work integrated learning. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport and Recreation Activities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) SPRT 2007 Equivalent Subjects SPRT 3007 - Ethical Issues in Sport and Athletics SPRT 3010 - Recreational Sports LGYA 0701 - Human Movement 6 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4659 Bachelor of Health Science (PDHPE), 4742 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary), 4747 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Assumed Knowledge Completion of two introductory coaching certificates. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine various principles of effective coaching, teaching and leadership within sport and recreation settings.
Assess the experiences and needs of individuals, groups and communities within a range of different physical activity, sport and recreation contexts.
Design and implement practical activities to suit the experiences and needs of individuals, groups and communities within a range of physical activity, sport and recreation contexts.
Evaluate the successes and challenges of teaching activities using self-reflection and feedback to identify improvements and action plans for future learning opportunities.
Demonstrate teaching and coaching proficiency in various theoretical and practical contexts. Subject Content 1. Teaching people with a range of interests in recreational activities and competitive sports 
2. Planning, implementing and evaluating teaching sessions in university, school, and community contexts 
3. Employing reflective practice as a learning process to inform effective design and delivery of sport and recreation activities 
4. Factors that influence lifelong participation in sport and recreation activities 
5. Participating in a community of practice where learning takes place in a collaborative, meaningful and personal environment Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special requirements relate to enrolment into some Subjects, usually those with placements or external activities (e.g., visiting schools). Both Games for Diverse Groups AND Coaching Sport and Rec have the following three special requirements. Working With Children Check - Apply for your WWCC here. Upload your WWCC here. Child Protection Course - Students must complete the TWO components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT) on the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/  The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis. Further info can be found on vUWS. Upload your certificate here. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Special requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 3 x 50 minute lesson plans 30 N Group/Individual Y  Reflection 1x1500 words / 10 - 15 minute video (interchangeable) 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 15 minutes 30 N Group/Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew Bennie Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)