Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7012 Building Fire Services Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300711 Coordinator Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window Description This subject describes the various types and application of building services and fire safety systems. It introduces appropriate standards for building fire service system design and the methods of applying recommendations of fire engineering assessments with respect to building services and fire safety systems. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Services Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYC 0661 - Building Fire Services Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Building surveying, fire safety engineering and related disciplines. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explain the operation of building fire services
identify and apply the relevant standards for building fire services
describe the relationship between fire brigade intervention and fire safety design
assess the adequacy of building fire safety system designs Subject Content Building Fire Safety Systems
Smoke Hazard Management
Automatic Fire Detection
Fire Hydrants
Hose Reels and Extinguishers
Fire Sprinklers
Special Hazard Extinguishment
Warning, communication signage and lighting
Emergency Planning and Response
Environment in which Fire Brigade Intervention Model operates
The Fire Brigade Intervention Model
Fire Brigade Operations
Fire System Reliability
Fire awareness
Hazard reduction & performance based designs and servicing, maintenance and certification. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Short quiz with 10 multiple choice questions. 10 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 words 20 N Individual Y  Quiz Short quiz with 10 multiple choice questions. 10 N Individual Y  Essay 3000 words. 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 words 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Graduate Certificate in Fire Safety Engineering (3792) Graduate Diploma in Building Surveying (3789) Graduate Diploma in Fire Safety Engineering (3791) Master of Building Surveying (3703) Master of Fire Safety Engineering (3705)