Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3023 Professional Experience 4: Teaching in Country Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102141 Coordinator Kellie Jorda Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. This subject will build on previous Professional Experience in the program. Students will be placed for 30 days in one of the partner local/regional/rural schools with a high Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander student population. Students are required to develop skills related to effective planning, programming, evaluating and teaching in a teaching context, which will be assessed against the Graduate Teacher Standards and as part of their Teaching Performance Assessment (TPA). Students will experience how school and classroom curricula and policy are influenced by the nature of the school’s community. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 1029 AND
TEAC 2049 AND
TEAC 3040 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1486 - Professional Experience 3 Teaching in Context - AREP Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify NSW syllabus documents, stage and outcome learning goals, plan lessons with a clear understanding of the research that will inform short and long term student progression 
Plan a cycle of teaching, learning and assessment events involving individuals, small groups and whole classes activities across all KLAs. 
Set a series of learning goals for a variety of learners exhibiting varying abilities and capabilities across a learning continuum using a range of teaching strategies. 
Assess classroom data and make informed adjustments in the delivery of lessons over time which foster student’s well-being and engagement. 
Identify individual and group learning needs of the class, plan for 3 teaching episodes, that include the principles of assessment provisions for the delivery of appropriate timely e feedback and support to selected students about their learning.
Make informed judgements through a series of professions conversations with colleagues about how schools and teachers make different curriculum decisions depending on their understanding of the community context. 
Assess their own individual learning needs through the application of self-reflective/reflexive engagements with National Professional Standards in the self-identification of their professional learning needs 
Demonstrate graduate outcome achievement levels in the preparation of their professional portfolio Subject Content Professional Standards for Graduate teachers
Evidence-based practice and reflection– observing, analysing, reflecting and evaluating personal professional practice
Classroom management
Community contexts
Lesson planning, implementation and assessment for effective learning
Individual, group and whole class teaching
Undertake professional conversations regarding the collection and revision of classroom data with a supervising teacher/mentor/s. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of volunteer and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
 i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
 ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
 iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link
b) Students will need to:
 i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
 ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
 iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT)
a) Students will need to:
i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
b) Students will need to:
i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. 5. Students must satisfactorily complete the national Literacy and Numeracy TEST prior to undertaking the final Professional Experience placement in this subject. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 30 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance n/a S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 8 pages S/U Y Individual Y  Case Study 15 minutes  S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Teacher Education (TEAC)