Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 6005 Applied Epidemiology Project Credit Points 40 Coordinator Kate Mcbride Opens in new window Description This subject is a capstone subject for high-achieving students (GPA >5.5) enrolled in the Master of Epidemiology. Students will get the opportunity to apply the epidemiological skills learnt during their postgraduate study as a supervised intern within a professional health, research or non-governmental organisation setting. The placement will consist of a minimum of 300 hours work (approximately 10 weeks full time work or equivalent part time). The placement will allow students to you will undertake a project which will make a useful contribution to the workplace and will be assessed via a final report and presentation as well as your professional placement supervisor’s report. Professional settings are usually located external to the University. Examples include Western Sydney Local Health District, South Western Local Health District, Nepean Blue Mountain’s Primary Health Network, Wentwest (Western Sydney) Primary Health Network. School Medicine Discipline Epidemiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 40cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Restrictions Must have a GPA >5.5. Assumed Knowledge Foundational understanding of epidemiology to be able to apply this knowledge in a professional setting. Learning Outcomes 1. Plan activities to support professional workplace epidemiological activities
2. Apply principles of co-design to epidemiological research
3. Design and conduct a research-based project addressing a contemporary real-world epidemiological issue
4. Employ initiative and ethical responsibility in the execution of a work-based project
5. Carry out statistical analyses, information security standards, data and relevant statistical software to inform strategies for prevention and control
6. Present research project findings and outcomes to specialist and non-specialist audiences in clinical and epidemiological practice and health research
7. Reflect on personal and professional needs to define direction for improvement in the field of epidemiology, especially when working in teams Subject Content Epidemiological project design and ethical considerations
Data collection, safe storage of data, and measurement
Data analysis
Report writing
Composing an epidemiological research report
Preparing a research presentation Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students will need to comply with NSW Health requirements if they intend to complete their internship at a hospital, or any other government or organisation requirements. Essential equipment Technical equipment such as an iPad or laptop. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 800 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  Professional Placement Performance 300 words S/U Y Individual N  Report 2,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Applied Epidemiology: Theory to Practice. Edited by Brownson, R.C. and Petitti, D.B. By: Ross C. Brownson (Editor), Diana B. Petitti (Editor). 20026 Oxford University Press. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Kate Mcbride Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Epidemiology (4738) Public Health (PUBH)