Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 3007 Water in the Landscape Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300870 Coordinator Jason Reynolds Opens in new window Description Many land and water use activities in both urban and rural landscape result in hydrologic changes that have environmental, economic and social consequences.  These activities require appropriate management strategies for sustainable water use in catchment.  In this unit, the hydrologic cycle will be explored at varying spatial scales in urban and rural contexts.  Hydrologic, environmental, economic and social perspectives will be used in the examination of the demand and the use of water. School Science Discipline Agricultural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6246 - Water in the Landscape Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Synthesise and evaluate different concepts and approaches to sound water management in the context of urban and rural catchments
Analyse and evaluate the nature of demands for water in different landscapes and for different users and the difficulties in matching supply and demand
Assess different sources of water and uses and analyse the issues related to rainwater harvesting, water conservation and recycling
Describe how human activities affect the water quality and health of waterways; and differentiate the impacts of factors such as population pressure and climate change on the availability of water for different uses
Research selected water issue through working on a mini project
Use social, cultural, economic, policy and institutional perspectives to relate sustainable water supply with demand Subject Content 1. Water issues and hydrologic cycle
2. Issues relating to water in the environment. Quantity and quality of groundwater and surface water supplies
3. Urban and Rural Irrigation
4. Evaporation and transpiration
5. Salinity, drought and other environmental issues
6. Water management in urban and peri-urban landscape
7. Social, economic and policy aspects of water management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words and video (5-7 min) 15 N Individual N  Presentation 15 mins 20 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 30 N Individual N  Report 3500 words 35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Jason Reynolds Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environment and Sustainability, Major (0169) Natural Science, Major (0213) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120)