Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 7015 Occupational Therapy Specialties Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400917 Coordinator Katie Hammill Opens in new window Description This subject provides occupational therapy students with the opportunity to select from, and undertake advanced study in, a range of occupational therapy clinical specialty areas. Several streams will run concurrently in this subject representing key clinical areas of specialisation in occupational therapy. Students will be able to focus their study, by selecting a combination of clinical specialty streams. Streams will cover relevant clinical content, examining the unique occupational therapy contribution in each specialty area. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3025 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Masters of Occupational Therapy or 4664 Master of Occupational Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the purpose of clinical specialisation within occupational therapy
Review and evaluate the unique occupational therapy contribution in clinical specialty areas of interest
Investigate clinical questions and apply knowledge and skills of evidence-based practice to the investigation of clinical specialty topics
Perform professional competencies relevant to the chosen clinical specialisation areas Subject Content 1. The unique occupational therapy contribution in areas of clinical specialisation
2. The use of learning contracts to determine learning needs in areas of clinical specialisation
3. Clinical questions relevant to the development of expertise in chosen clinical specialty areas as negotiated with academic staff
4. Knowledge and skills of evidence-based practice in the investigation of clinical specialty topics
5. Professional competencies relevant to the chosen clinical specialisation areas as negotiated with academic staff Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)