Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7045 Writing for Publication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401086 Coordinator Sheree Smith Opens in new window Description This subject is about writing for publication in the scholarly health and welfare literature. Students will investigate: the range of publications available and the media through which they are delivered; the process of publishing, the key people involved and their roles; the means by which quality is assured in the publishing process and the ways publications are rated for quality and impact; and the influence of social networking media on publishing. Specifically, the influence of online publishing will be investigated. Students will also gain experience of writing for publication under the guidance of an experienced editor and colleagues from the publishing industry. The subject is also available as an elective to all Postgraduate students in the University. School Nursing & Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: describe the steps in the publication process
demonstrate how to write quickly and how to improve their writing for publication.
explain the purpose of the quality assurance steps in the publication process
debate the merits of different peer review systems and the issues around open access to publications.
establish and maintain a credible social networking site and use existing sites
demonstrate an understanding of the role of publication metrics in evaluating journals and academics Subject Content The range of healthcare publications: from professional magazines to scholarly journals
The delivery of healthcare publications: from hardcopy to online only and combinations.
Who pays for publication, what are the challenges to the traditional publishing houses and how are they responding?
Open access versus closed access to publications ? why is everything not freely available?
Quality assurance in publication: peer review systems, similarity detection, editing, copyright and correspondence.
How the scientific healthcare community and the publishing industry use social networking media: webblogs, Twitter & Facebook.
Publication metrics: journals and individuals; impact factors and h-indices
What does writing an article involve: getting started, keeping going and getting finished
The publication process: from submission to publication; who does what? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Publication Plan 2,000 words 60 N Individual   Editorial 1,500 words 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Clinical Leadership, Testamur Major (T013) Clinical Teaching, Testamur Major (T014) Graduate Diploma in Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4714) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Master of Mental Health Nursing (4719) Nursing (NURS) Postgraduate Nursing, Major (0046)