Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1028 Introduction to Criminology and Justice (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Paul Rouillon Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the development of criminology as a framework for analysis and offers a critical introductory insight into various applied institutional and legislative contexts through which criminal justice occurs. Students will consider the ways in which deviant and/or criminal behaviour is defined and how the legislative and policy responses to crime operate at the level of Police, Courts and Corrections as well as the communities in which they operate. By the end of this subject, students will consider a crime or deviance issue and reflect on current practice.  Students will gain skills in assessing criminal justice issues holistically through a critical lens. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Diploma program at WSTC. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify relevant criminological and sociological theories of deviance.
Identify key concepts in criminal justice.
Define the ways in which deviance and crime are socially and culturally constructed.
Explain some advantages and disadvantages of the contemporary Australian criminal justice system in relation to community, police, courts, and corrections. 
Identify an example of a crime or deviance problem and reflect on benefits and drawbacks to a current response. Subject Content Constructions and theories of deviance and crime at biological, psychological, social and environmental levels.
Relevant concepts and principles of criminal justice – such as rule of law, criminal responsibility, democratic policing and principles of sentencing.
Pillars of the modern criminal justice system: Police, Courts & Corrections.
Critical review of responses to deviance, crime and injustice.
Theory to practice: opportunities to improve. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 1 hour 10 N Group N  Reflection 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 5 - 7 minutes 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts for this subject. Teaching Periods Autumn Block 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring Block 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Culture, Society and Justice (7188) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Other Society and Culture (CULT)