Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7015 Key Concepts in Communication and Media Research Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tanya Notley Opens in new window Description Mobile and networked media technologies have massively transformed how we work, learn, interact and play. Given this transformation, media and communication is now a vital area of research in every field and discipline. In this subject, you will be introduced to classic and contemporary media and communication technologies, texts and scholars as you explore historical and still unfolding developments and events. In doing so, you will consider how changes to media technologies, industries and practices impact upon – and are influenced by – people, cultures and economies. As you expand your knowledge of existing scholarship, you will learn how to identify and integrate the concepts, theories, methods and ethical frameworks that are most appropriate for your own thesis project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 7002 Engaging Discursive Fields Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate degree program. Learning Outcomes Identify and discuss a broad range of communication and media technologies, industries, cultures and practices and contextualise these within the relevant scholarship;
Articulate key concepts, approaches and methods used within the field of media and communication research;
Demonstrate an awareness of contemporary communication challenges, debates and developments;
Describe current intellectual trends relevant to leading scholars in your field of research; and
Apply advanced skills in the execution of research grounded in the identification of literature relevant to your thesis study. Subject Content 1. Key concepts and theories in communication and media; 2. Contemporary debates in communication and media; 3. Pivotal developments and events that have shaped media and communication practices; 4. Social media, Civic Engagement and Activism and impacts on Social Justice and Human Rights; 5. Media Trust and Democracy and the Challenges to Truth and Fact; 6. Media, Race and Racism; 7. Media Cultures and Representation; 8. Platform Capitalism; 9. Media Ecologies; 10. Communication and Media Technologies and Practices. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summary 3 x 500 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 5-10 minute presentation including submission of the presentation slides with the narration notes/script included 25 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 - 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tanya Notley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Communication and Media (COMM) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895)