Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 2010 Work-Integrated Learning in Digital Construction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301428 Coordinator Keivan Bamdad Masouleh Opens in new window Description The digitalisation of construction industries has grown considerably in the past decade and this subject responds in practical ways by engaging students in project-based learning related to Digital Construction within an industry framework. Students will select a project with an agreed industry partner, which involves simple digital applications in day-to-day construction such as software applications, information systems, digital solutions, apps and fintechs. This subject contributes towards the skills required for a work-ready graduate and allows the student to plan, undertake and report on a specific aspect of practice in the context of work. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Information Systems, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3782 Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) AND have applied and selected by a partner organisation before enrolling in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Manage various aspects of a project related to Digital Construction, including planning and implementation, to produce agreed deliverables that align with feedback.
Conduct research on the theoretical basis on the selected digital construction project demonstrating ethical, digital and information literacy.
Reflect on the learning and professional development achievements related to the selected digital construction project.
Apply communication and collaboration skills through the selected digital construction project and the workplace.
Integrate technical and digital tools for project management applications. Subject Content Students will learn how to manage a project on following simple digital applications in day-to-day construction, along with relevant theoretical knowledge through research:
?software applications
?information systems
?digital solutions/ apps/ fintechs Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes (each) 30 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words plus an agreed deliverable 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Keivan Bamdad Masouleh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Information Systems (INFS)