Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1043 Co-Designing Change with Local Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301282 Coordinator James Berry Opens in new window Description Collaboration is the foundation for some of the most successful world achievements ranging from medical breakthroughs, to space travel, to smart phones, to drones. Effective collaboration in diverse teams promotes a dynamic environment for creativity and innovation with good prospects for developing novel solutions. In a real world collaborative, co-design partnership with an external university partner, students will create a design proposal and prototype, based on a project brief. Through this collaborative process, students will develop skills in research, conceptualisation, communication and reflective practice whilst prototyping and testing their ideas before presenting them to their client. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1002 Applied Erognomics ENGR 1005 Design Studio 1 Patterns and Products Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify stakeholders and describe human-centred needs based on core requirements.
Develop and communicate conceptual design proposals based on a closed design brief.
Select a final design based on developed human-centred core attributes.
Build and test a design in the form of a simple operating model.
Describe and provide a written reflection on learning. Subject Content 1. Understanding human factors in design through observation and engagement
2. Participating in a real-life collaborative professional challenge
3. User-centred design inquiry
4. Reframing a project brief that observes the integration of people, context, and rewarding experiences of products or services in use
5. Practical introduction to working in teams
6. Integrated design processes and iterative physical model making and prototyping Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1 working interactive model    30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1200 words and 7 minutes presentation
 30 N Group N  Applied Project 2 X A3 presentation posters,  one full scale physical model, 3 minutes presentation
 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact James Berry Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Humanitarian Action in Practice, Minor (0327) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)