Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7029 Indigenous Australia: History, Knowledge and Professional Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102744 Coordinator Neil Hall Opens in new window Description Working with Indigenous communities is an important field of practice for social and human service workers in statutory as well as community contexts. This subject introduces students to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories, including pre-contact, colonisation and contemporary developments. Specific attention will be paid to engaging communities - including practice principles, strategies and skills. This subject will emphasise the importance of culturally responsive practices requiring students to have an understanding of their own values and cultures. Critical self-reflection and positioning are vital skills for cultural responsiveness, and will be developed in this subject. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and discuss specific ways of doing, being and knowing from Indigenous perspectives.
Articulate Indigenous worldviews for use in professional practices.
Examine the impacts of history and policy upon the lived experiences of Indigenous peoples.
Detail key concepts of wellbeing as determined by Indigenous peoples.
Critically analyse professionals' role as agents of social change. Subject Content 1. Indigenous history in Australia
2. Indigenous identities and contemporalities
3. Policies- past and present
4. Cultural Safety
5. Indigenous people and their concepts of well-being
6. Working with and for Indigenous people
7. Indigenised practice in social work, art therapy and other human services professions
8. Reflecting on your role Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 15 N Individual Y  Poster 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Neil Hall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Neil Hall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Art Therapy (exit only) (4596) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Social Work (Qualifying) (1792) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Other Creative Arts (CART) Sustainable Tourism and Visitor Economies, Major (0320)