Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 4009 Readings and Methodology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400201 Coordinator Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window Description This subject will broaden and deepen students understanding of research methodologies and methods and develop research skills in order to enable them to apply these to a specific Bachelor of Nursing (Honours) research project that can contribute to evidence-based practice and nursing disciplinary knowledge. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4529 Bachelor of Nursing (Honours). Assumed Knowledge A basic knowledge of research methods at undergraduate level or equivalent is required. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Critically evaluate a research methodology and develop a coherent research proposal and plan
2. Evaluate specific data collection method(s) and analyses
3. Identify and devise strategies to ensure rigour/validity/reliability of a planned research study
4. Identify potential ethical dilemmas and devise strategies to mitigate risk Subject Content 1. Research methodology and research design
2. Data collection method(s) and analysis
3. Planning to ensure Rigour/Validity and Reliability
4. Use of ethical principles in the conduct of research Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 2500 words 60 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Rebecca O'Reilly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Antoinette Cotton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (Honours) (4529) Nursing (NURS)