Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 7013 Ideate, Develop: Makerspace 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102717 Coordinator Kate Richards Opens in new window Description Ideation is at the core of creative industries. This practice-led research subject will teach you how to ideate, develop and pitch a major project, which you can then produce in the Makerspace 2 subject. We will show you how to mobilise your own creative interests, how to identify and research a creative or market challenge, and teach you techniques for generating ideas and innovative solutions-based responses. You'll learn systemic methods and tools for creative ideation across multiple platforms and channels, including UX (user experience), UI (user interactivity), design thinking, IA (information architecture) and UCD (user centred design). We'll also teach you how to pitch your project so it captures the imagination and attention of clients and audiences. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects COMM 7007 - Media Project Proposal Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Broad understanding of convergent media forms and processes. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply design practice and processes through using research methods in creative industries for the development of a creative industries project proposal.
Define and implement appropriate research methodologies for the background, technical design and creative processes involved in the ideation and development of a creative industries project proposal.
Identify, critique and evaluate precedent creative industries projects that promote effective communication, interaction, and user experiences through precedent appraisals within the project proposal document.
Apply a balanced approach for the design, testing and refinement of the strategy in the project proposal document and in planning for the production of a proof of concept or final project.
Demonstrate high level of professional presentation skills through pitching the project proposal stages. Subject Content 1. The roles of ideation and creative development in creative industries projects and business models.
2. Methodologies and methods for identifying and applying ideation and creative developments methods to a core concept.
3. Choosing an appropriate and viable platform/channel.
4.The roles and methodologies of background, precedent and audience research.
5. User centred design strategies for creative and audience development, including branding, UX and IA.
6. Introduction to business models and understanding of their application.
7. Skillset for proposing a creative industries project including structure, writing and illustration.
8. Scoping and planning for pilot/proof of concept, and associated documentation artefacts.
9. Presentation skills for peer, teacher and industry review. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1  1000 words 20 N Individual   Presentation 10 slides and 10  minutes 10 N Individual   Proposal 2 1000 words 20 N Individual   Presentation 10 slides and 10  minutes 10 N Individual   Final Proposal  1500 words 30 N Individual   Presentation 10 – 15 slides and 15 minutes 10 N Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Digital Futures, Testamur Major (T005) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)