Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 3016 Building Superstructure Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301221 Coordinator Brendan Kirkland Opens in new window Description The aim of this subject is to provide students with an understanding of the factors that contribute to the design and construction of a building superstructure. Students will be introduced to relevant Australian Standards for common construction materials and practices. The subject also aims to develop the ability of construction students to communicate professionally with other building professionals including structural engineers. Emphasis will be given to the strength, behaviour and failure of structural members, connections and frames. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Structural Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BLDG 1017 or
BLDG 1014 Co-requisite(s) CIVL2016 Equivalent Subjects CIVL3004
CIVL3005 Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of building construction both residential and non-residential. Learning Outcomes Identify common structural members, components and systems
Analyse the different effects and actions caused by various loads on structures
Discuss the factors which contribute to the structural design of a large building
Assess the strength, behaviour and failure modes of common structural members, components and systems
Apply Australian Standards related to the construction of large buildings and ensure National Construction Code compliance
Work independently and collaboratively to meet project milestones in an ethical and responsible manner Subject Content 1. Common structural members, components and systems
2. Loads on structures and their evaluation
3. Structural member actions
4. Behaviour, strength and failure of members, connections and frames Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites This subject involves extensive practical exercises. In order to undertake the practicals, each student must have the appropriate PPE (Personal Protection Equipment):
Laboratory coat
Safety glasses
Safety shoes (steel capped) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 x Quizzes (30 minutes each) 30 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Brendan Kirkland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Brendan Kirkland Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies (exit only) (3697) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045)