Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 2010 The Ethical Life Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101867 Coordinator John Hadley Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to time-honoured ethical questions and controversies. The issues to be examined point to questions that students are likely to face at some stage during their lives: Is death always a bad thing? Is abortion immoral? Are we obligated to give to charity? Should we be vegetarian? Should you have sex outside of a committed relationship? Is ethics founded upon religion, reason or community standards? As well as examining specific issues, students will be introduced to the leading secular and theistic ethical theories. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate their understanding of the major positions and issues in the field of practical ethics
Critically evaluate ethical theories and arguments
Develop their own arguments and positions on ethical issues with clarity and rigour Subject Content . The foundations of right and wrong: Is ethics based on religion, reason or cultural standards? Are ethical judgments true or false?
. Survey of rival ethical theories: consequentialism, deontology, virtue theory, post-analytic ethics.
. The harm of death and the ethics of killing: abortion, euthanasia, animals, killing in self-defense and war
. Giving to charity and duties of assistance
. Non-anthropocentrism: animal rights; the moral significance of ecosystems, species, trees and other non-sentient forms of life
. Interpersonal ethics: abstinence and sex before marriage; marriage; gay marriage; having children, surrogacy
. Freedom of Speech: The contemporary relevance of Millian free speech theory; recent free speech controversies - pornography, Islamic extremism, pro-anorexia and contemporary art; the internet and free speech ideals Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer not specified 25 N Individual Y  Essay 2000 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 words 35 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)