Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 4009 Instrumentation and Measurement Credit Points 10 Coordinator Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window Description Through practical exercises students will engage with engineering measurement and instrumentation systems. Students determine the most appropriate measurement method and instrument, such as multimeters, digital oscilloscopes and interfacing modules, for particular applications. They will gain experience with the measurement of physical quantities and the instrumentation required to accurately present information to a controller. Additionally, transducers used to measure common physical quantities are presented in detail, while instrumentation includes a detailed analysis of zero-span circuits, Wheatstone bridges, instrumentation amplifiers, isolation amplifiers, voltage-to-current and voltage-to-frequency modules used for faithful signal transmission, digital-to-analogue and analogue-to-digital circuits to deepen student learning. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electronic Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 2001 OR
ENGR 2001 Learning Outcomes Use a variety of transducers to measure physical parameters and estimate the errors involved in making measurements.
Integrate theory and practice to the selection of electronic components fit to specs: “fit for the job”
Integrate theory and technical competencies to the design and test of electronic instrumentation.
Interface a wide variety of transducers/sensors.
Utilise A/D and D/A converters in the context of digital control.
Utilise embedded systems in the context of digital control. Subject Content Estimation of errors in measurements.
Transducers, primary & secondary sensors.
General measurement systems.
Design of Signal Conditioners.
Effects of loading in electronic circuits.
Noise in measurements.
Aspects of grounding practices.
A-D/D-A Conversions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 2 submissions required 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2 submissions required 40 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Gaetano Gargiulo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037)