Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4004 Leadership, Research and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102687 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Description In this subject the complexity of leadership in early childhood contexts is explored. Students will analyse leadership theories and consider how the leadership role can and does influence the quality of practitioners’ practices and Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) service provision. Students will reflect on their professional identity, values, experiences, knowledge and practices to develop a personal perspective of how effective leadership is enacted to lead staff teams and strengthen relationships. Students will also engage with the tenets of research as they investigate their own pedagogy and practice as emerging leaders of early education settings. Using an action research model to explore the processes of data collection, analysis techniques and literature review, students will have the opportunity to develop a portfolio in which they critically analyse their own practices and consider strategies to build their leadership capability and pedagogical practice. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Co-requisite(s) TEAC 4009 - Professional Practice 3-5 Years Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 240 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes Evaluate leadership theories and their application in the ECEC context.
Analyse a range of effective leadership strategies, processes and skills that are enacted to lead in the ECEC setting.
Analyse the complexity and diversity of the leadership roles including activism, advocacy and capacity building in ECEC and the wider community.
Examine how leadership styles and characteristics influence quality ECEC service provision. 
Apply Action Research to improve professional practice.
Create a digital professional portfolio that reflects individual professional identity and leadership style and demonstrates capacity to meet the Australian Professional Teaching standards. Subject Content Leadership theory
Leadership styles and characteristics
Leadership in ECEC - complexity, diversity and professional identity
Influencing quality, relationships, pedagogy and change
Reflecting on professional identity and leadership
Action Research to improve professional practice
Developing and refining a professional portfolio Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio Approx. 10 web pages 50 Y Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)