Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 2015 Programming Techniques Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300581 Coordinator Paul Davies Opens in new window Description This subject is intended as a second subject of study in programming. It builds on a basic understanding of procedural programming as would be developed in a first subject. This subject continues the development of programming skills and methodologies required for professional programming and for further study in later computing subjects. Topics covered include multi-dimensional arrays, file I/O, searching and sorting, and an introduction to object-oriented programming involving classes and inheritance. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 1005 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5800
COMP 2017 Incompatible Subjects COMP 2016 - Programming Techniques (Advanced) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: With a chosen programming language in mind, analyse a given problem and: a). Develop an algorithm that applies structured programming techniques such as sequence, selection, iteration and modularisation that solve the given problem; b). Choose suitable data types to store relevant data for the given problem; c). Implement the solution algorithm using the chosen programming language, data types and control structures; d). Test and debug the program code to produce a working computer program.
Write and implement programs that use data structures such as arrays to solve problems in programming involving multiple data items.
Demonstrate how different searching and sorting methods operate and be able to implement them in working computer programs
Store, retrieve and manipulate data programmatically from secondary storage
Use object-oriented methodology to analyse relatively simple problems and develop object-oriented computer program solutions Subject Content 1. Revision and extension of procedural programming structures including: a. Data types b. I/O statements c. Calculations d. Problem solving techniques e. decision making constructs f. repetition structures g. writing and using functions h. one-dimensional arrays
2. Multi-dimensional arrays
3. Character strings and textual data
4. Sorting and searching algorithms: Sequential Search, Binary Search, Selection Sort, Bubble Sort
5. Object-Oriented Programming including: a. Introduction to classes and objects b. Class construction c. Constructors and destructors d. Inheritance e. Polymorphism
6. Data files Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Two Practical Deliverables. 1 to 5 programming tasks per practical deliverable. 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project One deliverable. Typically the solution files will be approximately 800 to 1200 lines of code. 40 N Individual Y  Professional Task 90 minutes 30 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Paul Davies Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Paul Davies Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Paul Davies Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Paul Davies Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Computer Science (COMP) Diploma/Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (6039) Game Programming, Testamur Major (T061) Other information Technology (INFO)