Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3001 Computer Security Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300569 Coordinator Tomas Trescak Opens in new window Description This subject aims in particular at, but is not limited to, the implementation and management of security and privacy policies of organisations within the standards and legal framework that is also applicable to the Australian standards. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Students are expected to have general understanding on computer systems; computer fundamentals, databases, and web technologies. Learning Outcomes Explain fundamental theories related to computer security, and apply them to computer systems and organisations.
Describe the modern authentication, authorisation and access control mechanisms used in computer systems; and look at a few methods of access operations and ownership issues.
Explain basic concepts in encryption and cryptography and describe application of various cryptographic techniques and algorithms in accomplishing security.
Examine security issues within various hardware systems, operating systems and application software and present the general causes that lead to system security failures.
Analyse the security issues specific to databases, and understand how to protect sensitive information and statistical systems within an organisation.
Identify security threats and risks associated with web and related technologies; and the capacity to make corrective and preventative measures against these threats and risks in organisations.
Describe the relevant standards and the legal framework related to security and privacy; and implement security and privacy policies in organizations. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes (Weekly from Week 2) 40 N Individual N  Quiz 60 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Tomas Trescak Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Harry Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Information Systems (3687) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Cloud Computing, Minor (0128) Computer Science (COMP) Cyber Security, Major (0066) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Networking, Major (0040) Networking, Minor (0040) Other information Technology (INFO)