Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7020 Artificial Intelligence Ethics and Organisations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301314 Coordinator Jiansheng Huang Opens in new window Description Artificial Intelligence Ethics and Organisations provides students with a comprehensive grounding in the ethical issues of general ICT and AI technologies. Students will learn the general ICT professionalism, the relevant laws, regulations and policies with respect to ICT and AI ethics, and the existing framework and research trend in the field. With a series of case studies, students will learn how to apply general principles and guidelines in practice. They will also learn to identify potential risks and impacts, to ensure AI ethics are followed in different circumstances regarding data governance, automatic decisions, predictive analytics, autonomous system design and deployment, and structure changes of labour markets. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Artificial Intelligence Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Assumed Knowledge General knowledge of artificial intelligence technologies and applications, including machine learning, robotics and autonomous systems, natural language processing and expert systems. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of existing laws, policies, and international, national, organisational framework of ICT and AI ethics and research trends in the field.
Understand ICT Professionalism (the code of professional conduct)
Explain the similarities and Difference between the general ICT ethics and AI ethics
Identify potential risks of ICT and AI systems in practice.
Implement methods to confirm appropriate consent and avoid data breaches in information sharing (when data is collected, sold, shared, collated and used).
Determine designs for transparency, fairness and accountability of automatic decisions.
Identify bias and discrimination in AI predictive analytics.
Explain impacts of AI to labour markets as well as appropriate and flexible regulatory policies to expand social protection.
Justify through moral reasoning the use of autonomous systems. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Quiz 2 Hours 30 N Individual N  Report 2000 words research report 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Jiansheng Huang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jiansheng Huang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Testamur Major (T002) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)