Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2030 Islam In the Modern World (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700162 Coordinator Kathy Gooch Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to Islam and its adherents within contemporary global context.  It looks at key Muslim intellectuals from the 19th Century until the present and examines their attempts to come to terms with modernity as a Western project, while addressing critical issues facing Islam.  Areas for consideration include: renewal and reform; the impact of colonialism and globalisation on Muslim discourse; independent judgement (ijtihad) versus emulation (taqlid); and issues associated with civil society.  Students will also explore the challenge of shaping a Muslim identity in the modern world - in the context of key Muslim institutions and social movements. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 3055 - Islam in the Modern World Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: After successful completion of this Unit, students will be able to:
Describe historical developments in the Muslim world and their impact on contemporary contexts.
Explain the origins, development and diversity of Islamic thoughts on various contemporary issues.
Analyse scholarly and popular debates regarding Muslim societies.
Analyse changing relations between Islam and the West during the modern period. Subject Content 1. The thought of key Muslim intellectuals from the 19th century to the present.
2. Muslim intellectuals on/and modernity as a Western project.
3. The impact of globalisation and colonialism on Muslim discourse.
4. Independent judgement (ijtihad) versus emulation (taqlid).
5. Muslim identity in the modern world in light of key Muslim institutions and social movements.
6. Reform and renewal. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short answer questions 300 words 10 N Individual   Analytical and Conception Task 1,000 words 25 N Individual   In-class short answer exams 2 x 500 words 25 N Individual   Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)