Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7028 Literary Translation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100925 Coordinator Vera Xu Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop in students an appreciation of different literary genres in English and in their other language (LOTE) with an emphasis on stylistic and cultural issues to provide a basis for literary translation. The subject will cover literary translation theory and introduce relevant strategies to be applied in practice. The class will be non-language specific, but students will be expected to work from and into their language other than English. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 3388 - Literary Translation Restrictions Students must be bilingual in the language combinations offered by the school. Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and one other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: develop an analytical frame for different literary genres in English and in their LOTE as well as appreciate the stylistic and cultural issues involved
interpret and exemplify major issues in literary translation theory; and
apply the relevant literary translation strategies in practical translation tasks. Subject Content 1. Presentation of different literary genres including poetry, fiction, drama, film scripts.
2. Introduction of literary translation theory.
3. Application of relevant literary translation strategies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Essay Translation up to 1500 words and essay up to 1500 words 50 N Individual Y  Final Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vera Xu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777)