Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7078 Principles of Private Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Rangika Palliyaarachchi Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental principles of private law covering core legal principles in contracts, torts, and property Law in the Australian legal and commercial context. Students will explore the key concepts, legal frameworks, and principles governing contracts, torts, and property rights in Australia. They will gain a solid understanding of contractual formation, enforceability, and remedies, as well as the elements of tort liability and the application of property law principles. Students will acquire a strong foundation in these core areas of Australian law, enabling them to apply their knowledge in practical legal scenarios. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 7009 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2824 Master of Laws. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain the role of private law within Australian commercial law.
Analyse the key principles of Australian torts law and the impact of torts law in the broader legal context.
Apply contract law principles to solve problems in relation to commercial transactions.
Assess legal and ethical dilemmas in how property law principles are applied to vulnerable communities, particularly Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Subject Content Introduction to Private Law in the Australian Commercial Law context
Torts: Trespass
Torts: Negligence
Contracts: Formation 
Contracts: Terms
Contracts: Enforcement
Agents and Contracts
Real Property
Personal Property
Business Organisations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Every class 10 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 25 N Group N  Professional Task 1,200 words 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rangika Palliyaarachchi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2846) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)