Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3013 Gender, Crime and Violence Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101561 Coordinator Ashlee Gore Opens in new window Description In recent decades, models and understanding of gender have become a major way of explaining crime and victimisation. Most obviously, feminist researchers have pioneered studies of the neglected victimisation of women from male violence and the impact of gendered discourses on the criminal justice system. This subject will critically engage with this material and also focus on contemporary accounts of the links between criminal offending and different violent and non-violent masculinities. Lastly, the shifting regulation of different sexualities and their criminalisation will be analysed. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CULT 1024 Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points including the pre-requisite subject listed above. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of explaining the relationship between violence, crime and gender.
Apply key feminist and critical masculinities theories to contemporary issues pertaining to crime and victimisation.
Understand and analyse the gendered aspects of the law and criminal justice system.
Develop policy and practice-orientated responses to gendered crimes and victimisation. Subject Content 1. The Continuum of Gendered and Sexual Violence: Key Trends and Issues
2. Theoretical Accounts: Feminist Theory, Masculinities, and Intersectionality
3. Cultures of Excuse: Hate, Honour, and Rage
4. Gender, War, and Militarisation
5. Colonization, Globalization, and the Abuse of Indigenous Women - Now and Then
6. Law, Justice, and Prevention Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 1 quiz per module, from module 1-5 10 N Individual N WSU Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 1500 words 50 N Individual N  Quiz Four quizzes - Time NA 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ashlee Gore Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Ashlee Gore Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Ashlee Gore Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Ashlee Gore Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ashlee Gore Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Criminology (1710) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Major (0006) Criminology and Criminal Justice, Minor (0006) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Gender Studies, Minor (0295) Other Society and Culture (CULT)