Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 3065 Special Event Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200990 Coordinator Catherine Link Opens in new window Description Special Event Management is designed to introduce students to event management in order to develop their skills and knowledge relating to the organisation of various event forms. The subject provides students the opportunity to practically apply management strategies, leadership theories, communication skills, and administration skills to facilitate the design, marketing, communication, innovation and planning of their own event. Careers in the industry can be found across diverse fields in the public and private sectors including hotels, event management companies, exhibition and sports venues, and in community organisations such as clubs, schools and charities. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 3067 - Sport and Hospitality Event Management Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4810 - Sport Event and Facility Management
LGYA 4864 - Convention and Special Event Management Assumed Knowledge This is an advanced subject which assumes intermediate knowledge of sport/hospitality management. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate event industry trends and practices.
Work collaboratively and effectively as part of an event coordination team to plan, organise, implement and review an event.
Produce a project timeline, run sheet(s) and budget for an event.
Identify revenue sources and evaluate the role of sponsors and grants.
Recognise the importance of identifying and engaging with key internal and external stakeholders.
Evaluate the management and leadership skills required to organise and participate in team activities/work areas. Subject Content Event types and potential participants
Event conceptualisation and strategic planning including accessibility and sustainability dimensions
Identifying and communicating with stakeholders
Development of project management skills including timeline and budget
The importance of site selection and influencing factors such as logistical operations, legal and risk management
Types of revenue streams including sponsorship, the process of attracting quality sponsors, and responsibilities to the sponsor
The process and significance of event evaluation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 10 minutes 20 N Group/Individual Y  Report 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Group/Individual Y  Report 3000 words 40 N Group Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Tendai Chikweche Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sport Development (4741) Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Festival and Event Management, Major (0306) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045) Sport, Events and Tourism, Major (0303) Tourism, Major (0161)