Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 3015 Philosophy of History Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102493 Coordinator Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window Description What is History? This question has been an object of inquiry as much for philosophers as for historians themselves. Large historical forces were at work in the Enlightenment--both in the sciences and in politics--and philosophers like Rousseau and Kant sought to understand these movements philosophically. For Rousseau, the lens was genealogical as he worked to produce a "natural history" of politics and society; for Kant, the historical lens was teleological as he narrated instead a philosophical history full of notions of progress and improvement. In the 19th century, philosophers like Hegel and Marx were concerned to think about history as a dialectical movement, while Nietzsche applied Darwin's new theory of evolution to his understanding of history and morals alike. The great shockwaves wrought by the two World Wars of the 20th century brought new philosophical writers to the problem of history, though now with an eye back toward the seemingly failed vision of inevitable progress so successfully peddled by the Enlightenment. This philosophical tradition and its changing approaches to history will be the focus of this unit. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Indentify major philosophical approaches to history
Analyse primary texts from the philosophy of history
Understand the major concepts at work in the philosophy of history
Apply basic philosophical analyses to historical events and issues Subject Content The claims of philosophical world history
The idea of world historical individuals
The moral advancement of humankind
Teleological approaches to the rise and decline of cultures
Hermeneutical issues with respect to interpreting the past Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1 hour 20 N Individual   Intra-session Exam 1,500 words 40 N Individual   Essay 2,500 words 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)