Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2004 Being a Teacher Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102637 Coordinator Kellie Jorda Opens in new window Description Theory and the practice of teaching are explored in depth in this subject. This subject explores the necessary teaching and interpersonal skills required to build positive relationships with students and manage the classroom. Students will develop skills in planning, implementing and evaluating the students’ learning which are designed to meet school students’ curriculum needs. It introduces students to a range of teaching strategies and assists with helping to identify when and why to use them. It explores how educational theories and practitioner research underpin and inform curriculum development and pedagogical practice. Integrated in the learning will be the use of information technologies. This subject will also facilitate students in developing a critical understanding of their individual progress towards satisfying the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the Graduate level. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the program can be applied in this and the Professional Experience subjects. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) TEAC 2048 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education and have successfully completed 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse a range of teaching and classroom management strategies that promote student learning. 
Demonstrate knowledge of structured sequential lesson planning and evidence-based assessment. 
Evaluate a range of explicit teaching, modelling and scaffolding processes to support student learning.
Explain ways in which teaching practices can be adapted for varied classrooms settings and for varied curriculum.
Apply critical thinking skills to solve teaching and learning challenges in contemporary education.
Apply educational research to inform pedagogies and assessment to maximise student outcomes. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 15 N Individual Y  Case Study 1500-2000 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1000 words and an electronic portfolio 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Kellie Jorda Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Associate Degree in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1940) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)