Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7001 Developing Sustainable Places Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101636 Coordinator Louise Crabtree-Hayes Opens in new window Description This subject provides an understanding of environmental, economic and social issues arising from the effects of urban development within city regions and examines the relationship between sustainable development and metropolitan planning in the Australian and global context. It focuses on the concepts related to sustainability, sustainable development and sustainable cities. It also looks into recent initiatives towards the realisation of sustainable cities. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1340 - Land Use Strategy Design LGYA 1294 - Urban Challenges Developing Sustainable Places Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the multiple dimensions and concerns of urban and regional planning and design (i.e. social, economic, environmental and cultural) that contribute to the sustainable development of places.
Examine the implications of contemporary global trends and emerging issues to the sustainability of places.
Demonstrate capacity to engage meaningfully and ethically with diverse groups and stakeholders in the planning processes.
Justify a planning approach using relevant data that you have assembled and analysed, that aims to address and/or manage an issue relating to the development of sustainable places. Subject Content Regenerative and leading practice
Planning for and with nature.
Sustainability indicators.
Active destinations and placemaking
Planning for alternative transport modes
Planning for active living
Planning for and with diverse communities
Sustainable, diverse, and affordable housing
Land use planning and urban amenity
Climate change planning, adaptation, and equity
Healthy cities, healthy planet Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 slides maximum 10 N Group N  Peer Review 500 words maximum 20 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group N  Report 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Louise Crabtree-Hayes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Bachelor of Research Studies (Planning) (8119) Business and Management (BUSM) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Green Cities) (1898) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Healthy Places) (1899) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management and Planning (1676) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Management, Testamur Major (T043) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Master of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1895) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Science (3749) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Sustainable Business, Major (0249) Sustainable Tourism Futures (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage), Minor (0307)