Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2024 Incubator 2: Start-up Essentials Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301206 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description This subject prepares students to run a lean startup. Lean Start-up techniques are designed to test a business concept, or a hypothesis to create fast-growing businesses. Students learn that the chances of success improve when following the principles of failing fast, customer feedback and continuous learning. Through practical activities students analyse the legal and ethical dilemmas that apply to a start-up (or any) organisation.  Upon successful completion of this subject, students would have developed a thorough understanding of developing a startup business using lean startup method, local and international legal and ethical landscape within which modern start-up businesses operate. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Business Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2023 - Incubator 2 Legal and Ethical Setting of Entrepreneurship Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Develop a hypothesis for a startup business. 
2. Apply a business model for a startup business using lean start-up tools. 
3. Prepare a business plan for a startup business. 
4. Experiment with rapid prototyping to validate with customers. 
5. Apply communication and collaboration skills to complete tasks in a timely and ethical manner. Subject Content Entrepreneurial mindset & lean startup method 
Lean Canvas 
Business Plan Development  
Hypothesis-based approach to ideation 
Rapid Prototyping  
Intellectual Property (IP) Strategy 
Ethical Business Strategy Special Requirements Essential equipment Laptop Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 800 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study Option 1:  1500 words   OR  Option 2: 7 minutes self-reflection video 40 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Business and Management (BUSM) Design Practice, Major (0225) Ideate. Strategise. Innovate., Minor (0336) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)