Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0045 The Structure of English (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900056 Coordinator Maria Charalambous Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to improve the English proficiency across the four macro skills (reading, writing, speaking and listening) of University Foundation Studies students who wish to progress to university studies.   Students need preparation for both understanding the content of Foundation Studies and being able to participate fully in all subjects.  Such preparation includes making clear the way English is used according to purpose, audience and subject. Moreover, students need to develop their confidence and competence in using the language in academic contexts.  By raising the language awareness of students, they will be able to transfer the learning skills across the subject areas.  The course also seeks to address the particular speaking needs of overseas students. School Western Sydney The College Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Only students enrolled at The College in Foundation Studies programs can enrol in this unit Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Communicate information in appropriate written mode according to purpose, audience and unit.
Understand and make meaning from a variety of written academic text types.
Communicate information in appropriate spoken mode according to purpose, audience and unit.
Research, interpret, organise and analyse information.
Understand and make meaning from a variety of spoken academic text types.
Work effectively in large and small group learning environments Subject Content 1. Listening / note-taking skills
2. Oral presentation skills
3. Speaking skills
4. Academic reading skills
5. Report writing skills
6. Researching for information
7. Academic writing skills
8. Paraphrasing/summarising skills Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer part A 250 words 15 N Individual   Short Answer part B 250 words 15 N Individual   Intra-session exam L - 45 minutes
R/w - 1 hour 45 minutes 20 N Individual   Presentation 10 minutes 15 N Individual   Final exam 2.5 hours 35 N Individual Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)