Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7005 Emergency Management for Bushfire Prone Areas Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200459 Coordinator Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window Description This subject describes the organisational and administrative arrangements for the management of emergency events in Australia, including the role of States and local government and the techniques available to develop risk management strategies in order to minimise loss of life and property arising from bushfire emergencies. The subject describes how the three tiers of Government interact during major emergency events, the role of community engagement in emergency management and the process of developing a risk management plan for bushfire emergencies. The subject also discusses the role of post-event survey and emergency and evacuation planning at the property scale. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Fire Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Bushfire behaviour, planning, building and bushfire fighting subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and describe the organisational and administrative arrangements applying to emergency events in their own jurisdiction
Describe the process of developing risk management strategies and their applicability to bushfire planning;
Discuss the techniques that can be used to develop risk management strategies, including community engagement, monitoring and review;
Predict the (qualitative) risk of an area arising from bushfire; and
Apply appropriate guidelines, standards and codes to the development of a bushfire emergency plan for a site. Subject Content Legislative requirements and organisational arrangements for emergencies
Integration of the fire services and other emergencies authorities
Prevention (mitigation), preparedness, response and recovery concepts
Bushfire risk management processes and strategies
Evacuation planning in bushfire emergencies
Community engagement in planning for bushfire emergencies
Post event surveys, research and their role in emergency planning
Recovery from emergencies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1000 words 20 N Individual Y  Essay 3000 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words 25 N Individual Y  Professional Task Workshop tasks including 20 minute oral presentation 20 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)