Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2017 Pavement Materials and Design (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700239 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with the basic knowledge and concepts on pavement materials and design.  It will cover the common materials used in pavement construction such as aggregates, cement, asphalt and concrete.  It will also cover the pavement design system, pavement construction, design of flexible pavements, design of rigid pavements and pavement maintenance.Offerings of alternate subjects are dependent on there being sufficient student enrolment numbers. If enrolments are low, the College may cancel delivery of the alternate subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 1009 Equivalent Subjects ENGR 2016 - Pavement Materials and Design Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the properties and manufacture of pavement materials
Design asphalt mix and concrete mix
Evaluate and select the pavement materials for specific pavement construction
Explain the pavement design system
Apply the basic principles to the structural; design and construction of flexible and rigid pavements
Conduct pavement evaluation and describe the pavement maintenance practices Subject Content 1. Pavement materials and their selection
2. Granular materials: role and function, behaviour, production, properties and tests for quality
3. Asphalt: mix types, materials selection, mix design, manufacture and paving
4. Cement: composition, hydration and properties
5. Concrete: materials selection, mix design and steel reinforcement materials
6. Pavement design system
7. Design of flexible pavements
8. Design of rigid pavements
9. Pavement construction
10. Maintenance of pavement Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 4 hours 20 N Group/Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Quiz ~0.5hr each 15 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)