Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 3009 Foundational Diagnostic Imaging Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401468 Coordinator Paul Stoodley Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to a range of diagnostic imaging modalities providing an overview of both the technical and practical aspects. Three imaging modalities will be covered, MRI, cardiac sonography and vascular sonography. Within the MRI module, you will learn how to view MRI images and compare them with CT/ultrasound as well as understand the clinical values of each modality and the risks associated. In the cardiac module you will learn the principles of cardiac ultrasound image acquisition, methods used to evaluate cardiac anatomy and function, and the essentials of complimentary tests such as electrocardiograms and stress tests. In the vascular module, undertaking non-imaging assessments will be covered, alongside imaging principles. The practical skills are aimed at providing students with a working knowledge of imaging modalities and enhancing students' prospects of successful application for a training position. The majority of this course is delivered online. However, students must attend a compulsory one-day face-to-face practical skills workshop at Blacktown clinical school. School Medicine Discipline Medical Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explore key imaging concepts and principles to inform clinical practice
Review 3D and relational anatomy and the relationship to advanced diagnostic imaging
Apply theories and strategies used in the performance of both imaging and non-imaging assessments
Assess the clinical values of different imaging modality covering diagnostic confidence of each modalities and the risks associated
Examine professional pathways and development within medical imaging Subject Content MRI: MR image acquisition / 3D and relational anatomy / clinical aspect.
Cardiac ultrasound: image acquisition / evaluating anatomy and function / complimentary tests.
Vascular ultrasound: image acquisition / evaluating anatomy and haemodynamics / non-imaging assessments. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 Quizzes x 10 minutes  S/U N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Case Study 600 words 30 N Individual Y  Literature Review 800 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Paul Stoodley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Medical Studies (MEDI)