Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3115 Medieval Europe from the Fall of the Roman Empire to the Reformation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102861 Coordinator Simon Burrows Opens in new window Description This subject is an introductory survey of European history from the Middle Ages to the Early Modern period. It begins chronologically with the fall of the Roman Empire, and concludes with the Protestant Reformation. Students will be introduced to three core themes. The first is the gradual emergence of a distinction between church and state in the Christian west, the second is the feudal organization of medieval societies, and the third is the development of intellectual life, including the origin of universities, natural law, and the Renaissance. Students will develop their knowledge as well as their skills in interpreting a variety of primary sources, including Medieval epic, theology, Renaissance art, political tracts, and archival documents including the Domesday book. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled course Learning Outcomes Discuss the major events, persons and ideas of the Medieval and Early Modern west.
Analyse major historical developments of the Medieval and Early Modern period and how they helped lay the foundations of the modern world. 
Critically analyse a variety of primary and secondary sources, and articulate their significance to relevant historical problems.
Communicate thoughtful arguments and evidence-based conclusions orally and in writing. Subject Content The topics covered include but are not limited to: The Fall of Rome
The “Dark Ages”
The Vikings
The Carolingians and the Holy Roman Empire
William the Conqueror and the Domesday book
Thomas Aquinas and natural law
Everyday life: the feudal system, plagues, war and famine
Christianity meets Islam: the Crusades
The origin of universities
The Renaissance – art, literature, music
The Renaissance – humanism 
Interactions with the rest of the globe: trade and voyages of discovery
Medieval women
Crises of the late Medieval church
The Protestant Reformation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 mins 20 N Individual Y  Essay 2500 45 N Individual Y  Log/Workbook 2000 35 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Simon Burrows Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Ancient History, Minor (0262) History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Ancient History Education, Major (0352) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Studies of Religion, Minor (0200)