Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 3023 Incubator 6: Funding a Start-up Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window Description This subject investigates various funding opportunities available for startup businesses. Theoretical knowledge and real-world experiences are blended to ensure students are knowledgeable, immersed in and connected with the Australian funding ecosystem. Students finish the subject with knowledge of the different funding sources to explore on the startup journey, and an increased social capital with Australian funders. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects MKTG3005 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify the main actors in the Australian funding ecosystem.
Analyse the criteria and funding options for new business opportunities.
Apply primary research skills to explore preferred funding options.
Identify key lessons from successfully funded ventures.
Apply communication and collaboration skills in a relatable and inclusive manner for a range of audiences.
Apply negotiating skills and tactics. Subject Content Types of funding  
Stages of funding
Business setup for funding
Types of investors, choosing and managing investors 
Choosing startups to invest in
Ways to pitch for funds
Applications for funding 
Termsheets and due diligence 
Negotiation tactics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 20 min interview recording + 10 minute debrief 40 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Simulation 30 minutes 30 N Group N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Anton Bogdanovych Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (3747) Bachelor of Entrepreneurship (Games Design and Simulation) (3746) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) Technology Entrepreneurship, Major (0261)