Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 2003 Community Work and Community Development (Block Mode) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101774 Coordinator Jim Ife Opens in new window Description This subject introduces theories and skills in community work and community development. It begins with an analysis of the terms community and community development and their competing meanings and discourses. This is followed by an examination of the breadth and scope of community work at a local, state and global level. The subject will provide an opportunity for students to develop an understanding of the environmental, political, economic and cultural issues relevant to community work and community development practice. The subject will explore examples of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities, to illustrate the subject content. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects WELF 2002 - Community Work and Community Development LGYA 7651 - Community Work and Community Development AREPMetro Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1689 Bachelor of Community and Social Development and must have successfully completed 60 credit points at Level 1. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the concepts of community and community development, and identify competing meanings and discursive practices;
Identify the ideologies and values underpinning different models of community work and community development;
Articulate a critical awareness of the theoretical assumptions underpinning current practices of community development;
Demonstrate critical understanding of the value of different models of community development in a diversity of contexts;
Critically analyse a community development initiative with an Indigenous community. Subject Content Concepts of community and community development
Ideologies and visions underlying community and community
Development
Theorising community work and community development
Models of community development - linking to theory
Models of community work practice
Skills for community work and community development practice
Social Justice framework for understanding community development
Community work and community development in a globalised world
Indigenous communities and community development ? issues and challenges Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 30 N Individual   Presentation on a Community Development Initiative  20 minutes 25 N Individual   Report on Community Development Initiative 2,000 words 45 N Individual Structures that include subject Human Welfare and Services (WELF)