Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7019 Cultural and Social Diversity in Health Care Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401082 Coordinator Fung Koo Opens in new window Description This subject encourages students to investigate and discuss the concepts of health and illness in the context of cultural and social diversity. The subject promotes the attainment of critical knowledge and core principles necessary for students to become holistic, culturally and socially sensitive and appropriately adaptable when meeting the health needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, other marginalised and vulnerable groups including refugees and those from LGBTI community, and people from culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) backgrounds. A multicultural approach provides a framework for students to explore the impact of different attitude and value systems relating to the health of peoples in Australia. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique the social determinants of health among culturally and socially diverse communities
Critically reflect on own values and attitudes when working in culturally and socially diverse communities
Apply integrated knowledge of culture, ethnicity and diversity into the provision of health care for a multicultural society
Differentiate health related risk factors for people from diverse cultural groups
Critique the impact of past events, and health care policies on the health of Australia’s culturally diverse communities, particularly on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People Subject Content 1. Understanding culturally and socially diverse communities 2. Impact of Culture, diversity and health 3. Culture and diversity in health care 4. Culturally sensitive and appropriate health care for Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 40 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 20 multiple choice questions/20 minutes 20 N Individual N Alternate Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Essay 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Hong Kong Baptist - Autumn (2024) Hong Kong Baptist University On-site Subject Contact Fung Koo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hong Kong Baptist - Spring (2024) Hong Kong Baptist University On-site Subject Contact Fung Koo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Fung Koo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Fung Koo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hong Kong Baptist - Term 3 (2024) Hong Kong Baptist University On-site Subject Contact Fung Koo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Clinical Leadership, Testamur Major (T013) Clinical Teaching, Testamur Major (T014) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Aged Care Management (4756) Graduate Certificate in Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4783) Graduate Certificate in Nursing (4724) Graduate Certificate in Nursing (Professional Studies) (exit only) (4737) Graduate Diploma in Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4782) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (4723) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (Professional Studies) (exit only) (4736) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Master of Nursing (Professional Studies) (4735) Master of Primary Health Care (4694) Nursing (NURS) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Postgraduate Nursing, Major (0046) Tuberculosis Management, Testamur Major (T093)