Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 3077 Legal Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201080 Coordinator Zaky Orya Opens in new window Description This subject provides an internship opportunity for later year law students in host organisations (including NGOs and public interest organisations, community legal centres, government departments, corporations, barristers' chambers or private law firms).  Internships provide students with invaluable access to opportunities to understand the law in context, to apply their formal learning about legal principles, to develop essential professional skills and to gain exposure to different career pathways.  Students who successfully complete orientation requirements will spend twelve days throughout the semester at a host organisation. This will usually be done on a one- day (7 hours) per week basis.  An intern's duties will generally consist of a combination of substantive tasks relating to law, policy and practice. Depending on the host organisation, these may include a combination of research, preparing background materials, briefing papers or research reports, liaising with other organisations, assisting in the provision of legal assistance and advice, observing interviews with clients, conferences with Counsel or in court proceedings, undertaking project and advocacy work, preparing/ giving presentations and assisting with administrative and editing work.  The School will seek expressions of interest for the number of placements available with the School's partner host organisations each semester.   Students are also able to arrange their own internships at organisations that are not currently host organisations, subject to the approval of the Clinical Director and the agreement of the host organisation to complete the attendance and assessment requirements of the subject. School Law Discipline Legal Practice Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 2015 AND
LAWS 2004 AND
LAWS 2013 AND
LAWS 2003 AND
LAWS 1009 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the nature, function and principles of Australian law in a specific legal practice context.
Effectively apply the principles and processes of legal reasoning.
Perform tasks within a practical legal context.
Apply the law to solve legal, professional and ethical legal issues that arise in legal practice.
Critically reflect on the values, ethical standards and conduct that underpin professional responsibility in legal practice. Subject Content 12 days of practicum learning exposing interns to the internal workings of legal practice.
Ethical client- centred practice.
Reflective legal practice.
Professional communication and interpersonal skills for the client-centred lawyer.
Critical analysis of the operation of the law, policy and the legal system. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Depending on the host organisation, students may be required to obtain a Working With Children or Criminal Record Check. This will be advised by the relevant host organisation. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 6 x 1.5 hour seminars S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Placement duration - 84 hours 
(12 days x 7 hours) S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 3  x 600 words each (1,800) S/U Y Individual Y  Report 1,000 words maximum  S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Zaky Orya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Zaky Orya Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (2537) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2830) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (2501) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2828) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (2502) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2829) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (2538) Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2827) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law (LAWS) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833) ​Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2831)