Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3050 Introduction to Stylistics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102186 Coordinator Christopher Conti Opens in new window Description The focus of this online subject is the language of literature and the craft of writing. The subject explores the rhetorical or figurative dimension of language across literary and non-literary texts. Students analyse a range of short texts - mostly passages from novels and poems - with an eye to the formal basis of their effects. Through recorded lecture pods and online exercises, students are introduced to the basic tools of stylistic analysis, including narrative analysis, metaphorical analysis and critical discourse analysis. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Linguistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the linguistics basis of literary effects or "style"
analyse the rhetorical character of "ordinary" language and text, including the key tropes metaphor, metenymy and irony;
apply a range of analytical tools to literary and non-literary texts;
implement textual, interpretive and narrative analyses that have applications across discursive and disciplinary boundaries. Subject Content Introduction: Literature and literariness - Defamiliarisation - Foregrounding
Module 1: Language as system - Word choices - Collocation
Module 2: Grammar, syntax and function - Transitivity 1: Clauses and agents - Transitivity 2: Patterns
Module 3: Metaphor and metonymy -Tenor and vehicle - Cognitive metaphor theory
Module 4: Language, rhetoric and power - Text and context - Critical discourse analysis
Module 5: Narrative - Focalisation and free indirect discourse - Mind style Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online quizzes 1,000 words in total 20 N Individual   Transitivity analysis 1,000-1,500 words 30 N Individual   Final essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)