Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 7011 Investment Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200868 Coordinator Nicole Ibbett Opens in new window Description Investment Planning is one of the core subjects in the Master of Commerce (Financial Planning). The course is designed to provide the educational basis to enable students to increase competence as professional financial advisers and enable them to gain an advanced knowledge and understanding of the financial planning industry. The subject introduces basic concepts of risk and return in relation to investment planning. Various investment vehicles are covered including shares and fixed interest investments. School Business Discipline Investment and Securities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 6482 Principles of Investment Planning (PG) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2671/2770 Master of Commerce (Financial Planning) or 2690 Graduate Certificate in Commerce (Financial Planning). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Outline the reasons for investing, examine the different asset classes, various types of risk, and the purpose of diversification;
Explain the workings of the main investment markets;
Apply the techniques of the modern portfolio theory and investment analysis to finding solutions to various investment problems. Subject Content Investment markets
Risk, return and diversification
Direct investing and the personal investor
Indirect investing and the personal investor
Alternative investments and the personal investor
Behavioural finance and investment objectives for personal investors
Risk tolerance and asset allocation within a personal portfolio
Ongoing portfolio management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes  20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Nicole Ibbett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Graduate Diploma in Financial Planning (2794) Master of Financial Planning (2793)