Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1023 Working with Cultural Differences (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700140 Coordinator Mona Shrestha Opens in new window Description The purpose of this subject is to develop awareness and understanding of cultural differences, whiteness and power relations in Australian society. Students are introduced to and required to develop a working understanding of theories of whiteness, culture, identity, difference and relations of power. Through assignments and activities students have the opportunity to work through the application of these theories in relation to different groups and social issues in the Australian context. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1022 Working with Cultural Differences
HUMN 1046 Tourism in Society (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in Extended Diploma College programs must have passed 40 credit points of the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject.
Students enrolled in Integrated Diploma/Bachelor programs must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Articulate current theories and concepts of culture, identity, difference and power.
2. Identify the historical and social contexts of cultural differences and power relations in Australia through personal narratives and readings.
3. Explain the concept of whiteness as a structure of authority and as a location of identity.
4. Discuss the history of Indigenous/non-Indigenous relations in Australia and its impact for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders today.
5. Evaluate different discourses and practices of multiculturalism in recent Australian history. Subject Content 1. Concepts of culture, cultural difference and identity;
2. Narratives of identities and difference;
3. Understanding of power and relations of power and positioning within cultural differences;
4. Whiteness as a structure of authority and as a location of identity;
5. Historical and social perspectives on cultural differences and power relations in Australia;
6. Impact of the history of Indigenous/non-Indigenous relations in Australia;
7. Discourses of multiculturalism in recent Australian history;
8. Markers of difference such as gender, race, class, sexuality, location in the Australian context;
9. Exploration of good practice, policy and research on working with cultural differences. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz (6) of 10 questions each  (Wk2 early intervention quiz – 250 words) 30 N Individual N  Reflection 2 x 600 words 40 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 750 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mona Shrestha Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Paul Rouillon Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Other Society and Culture (CULT)