Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7007 Health Workforce Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400843 Coordinator Stewart Alford Opens in new window Description This is a flexible learning subject looking at Human Resource Management as a strategic activity of health organisations especially as workforce shortages pose significant challenges to the health, welfare and aged care sectors. The workforce, with appropriate knowledge and expertise, is essential to the efficient and effective delivery of quality health services.  Successful organisations shape their workforce to anticipate current and future business directions and goals.  Workforce planning is a crucial element of this approach and its success. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 8572 - Human Resources Management LGYA 7490 - Workforce Planning and HR Issues in Aged Care LGYA 4898 - Human Resource Management Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyze the health industry workforce profile based on appraisal of national and international workforce data.
Evaluate human resources management and information management systems used in health care organisations to develop and manage critical workforce data.
Identify future workforce needs within the health care industry and apply principles of strategic human resource planning to address workforce issues.
Manage an organisational workforce, including recruitment and selection, performance management, training, development and employee relations, for the health and aged care industry Subject Content 1. The health industry workforce profile based on an analysis of rigorous workforce data.
2. Human resources management and information systems used in health care service organisations to develop and manage critical workforce data.
3. Identification of future workforce needs within the health care industry and apply principles of strategic human resource planning to address workforce issues.
4. Development of skills in workforce management, including recruitment and selection, performance management, training, development and employee relations, for the health and aged care industry
5. Conducting staff appraisals. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Workforce planning report 1500 words 40 N Individual   Workforce performance report 2500 words 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Health (Research Studies)/PhD (4681) Master of Science (3749) Other Health (HLTH)