Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7047 Advanced Gynaecological Surgery 2 Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401318 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term). This is a yearlong core subject in Year 2 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program. The student is expected to attain a comprehensive understanding and knowledge of the procedures performed in the management of Gynaecological Disorders where surgery is indicated. The ultimate aim is to become a competent surgeon in this field.  This subject aims to build upon the knowledge gained from Advanced Gynaecological Surgery 1 to allow students to further discuss and reflect on a broad range of topics pertaining to Advanced Gynaecological Surgery with an emphasis on minimally invasive techniques.  The theoretical aspects of teaching surgery is an important aspect in the development of competent surgeons. A review of teaching techniques, including simulation is an area to be evaluated, appraised and developed.   The pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative management of patients and their conditions are considered with a critical review of the literature to substantiate and support any conclusions made which may help shape future clinical practice. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7046 Co-requisite(s) MEDI 7050 Restrictions Student must be enrolled in 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of an Advanced Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) and satisfactory completion of the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery [ie, Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) program]. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Appraise the pre-operative management where Gynaecological Surgery is contemplated
Critically evaluate the intra-operative surgical principles involved in performing Gynaecological Surgery, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques
Effectively diagnose and manage complications, with particular reference to laparoscopic surgical methods utilised when returning to theatres
Critique the post-operative care to patients following gynaecological surgery
Conduct research reports on the practice of gynaecological surgery to empower continued self-improvement
Reflect on the practice of surgery and teaching strategies relevant to gynaecological surgery and their effectiveness
Execute safe, caring and ethical approaches to gynaecological surgery involving patients, family and other health care professionals in a clinical setting Subject Content 1.Pre-operative assessment of the patient?fs condition where surgery is an option for the patient
2.Surgical principles required to deal with the contemplated surgical problem, particularly focusing on minimally invasive techniques
3.Intra-operative surgical techniques used at operations to prevent complications with algorithms and pathways to clinically diagnose complications
4.Post-operative care used in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery, particularly in minimally invasive techniques
5.Literature review on proposed gynaecological surgical procedures
6.Theoretical aspects of teaching gynaecological surgery Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 5,000 words in total: 1a. 4,000 words (SLOs 1-5, & 7); 
1b. ~ 1,000 words (SLO 6)  50 N Individual Y  Critical Review 5,000 words in total: 2a. 4,000 words (SLOs 1-5, & 7); 
2b. ~ 1,000 words (SLO 6)  50 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Ongoing  S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook Ongoing  S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)