Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7090 Primary English and Literacy 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101586 Coordinator Lynde Tan Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide a comprehensive account of the teaching of spoken, written and multimodal texts in the primary years of schooling.  Students gain an understanding of different theories related to producing texts in a range of modes for different purposes. They investigate a range of written and multimodal genres, their textual structures and grammar and learn to apply these in planning and teaching in mainstream, English as an Additional Language or Dialect (EAL/D) and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander contexts, gaining a critical awareness of varying pedagogic approaches. Students will develop skills in pedagogy and practice, including next practice, within English & Literacy for K-6 students. The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the program can be applied in this subject and Professional Experience subjects. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) or 1783 Master of Teaching (Birth-5/Birth-12 years). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Compare and interpret different theories related to writing and creating of monomodal and multimodal texts.
Examine the aim, outcomes, and content of relevant syllabus and curriculum documents, with a particular focus on oral language and communication, vocabulary, print and digital conventions, creating written and multimodal texts, spelling, handwriting, and understanding and responding to literature. 
Examine the metalanguage (grammar) for written, visual and other semiotic modes. 
Examine strategies for teaching spelling, punctuation and handwriting. 
Apply knowledge about text and grammar in teaching and assessing children’s writing and representation of ideas.
Apply understandings of curriculum design and the use of technology in the teaching of text and grammar in integrated units of work.
Evaluate and critique strategies for the teaching of English to diverse learners, focusing on EAL/D and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners.  
Analyse student assessment data to monitor progress towards meeting learning outcomes and to establish clear and achievable goals for future learning. Subject Content Theories of language acquisition and writing 
Content of NSW Syllabus for the Australian Curriculum: NSW English K-10 (K-6 component) Syllabus 
Metalanguage of written, multimodal and digital texts and strategies for teaching them
Strategies for teaching spelling, punctuation and handwriting 
Assessment of children's spoken, written, multimodal and digital texts
Planning an integrated approach to literacy teaching and teaching literacy in context of other curriculum areas 
Strategies for the teaching of English to English as an Additional Language/Dialect and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander learners
English textual concepts
Oral language and communication Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 50 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Callow, J. (2023). The shape of text to come: how image, text and other modes work (2nd ed.). Primary English Teaching Association of Australia. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Lynde Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Lynde Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Lynde Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Teacher Education (TEAC)