Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3044 STEM Principles and Practices in the Primary Years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102797 Coordinator Grant Jones Opens in new window Description The purpose of this subject is for students to gain exposure to authentic contexts for integrating science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and to develop knowledge and skills with designing and implementing STEM learning experiences. Students will have the opportunity to complete authentic interdisciplinary STEM tasks, and draw upon this experience to design and implement interdisciplinary STEM learning activities aligned to syllabus outcomes. This subject will allow students to simulate and evaluate the teaching practices associated with high-quality interdisciplinary STEM lessons. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in and have successfully completed 160 credit points in the Bachelor of Education (Primary). Assumed Knowledge 1. Mathematics K-10 Syllabus (2012).
2. Science & Technology K-6 Syllabus (2017). Learning Outcomes Demonstrate a critical understanding of theoretical constructs underlying STEM curriculum development as it relates to classroom teaching practice and student learning;
Demonstrate a critical understanding of computational and algorithmic thinking;
Apply knowledge of the K-6 syllabus documents in developing authentic STEM learning experiences;
Incorporate design thinking into STEM curriculum integration and development;
Create and evaluate interdisciplinary STEM units which integrate STEM principles in meaningful ways across traditional subject boundaries. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Simulation 500 words 15 N Individual N  Critical Review 1400 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Grant Jones Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Teacher Education (TEAC)