Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2030 Paramedicine Care of Diverse Patients 2 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Liz Thyer Opens in new window Description Paramedics encounter a diverse range of patients. Many of these patients are vulnerable because of their social, clinical or cultural situation. Vulnerable and diverse populations are often overrepresented in paramedic caseload. Paramedics also encounter patients with a wide range of physical and cognitive disabilities. Paramedics are increasingly a key profession in helping diverse and vulnerable patients navigate the health system. This subject explores how paramedics can provide culturally safe and appropriate patient-centred care to these populations. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2026 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4790 Bachelor of Paramedicine or 4669 Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine). Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: 1. Reflect on the role paramedics play in connecting diverse and vulnerable populations with the healthcare system and appropriate care.
2. Critique the provision of culturally safe, person-centered care to patients from diverse and vulnerable populations in a paramedicine context. 
3. Contrast challenges and enablers for patients from diverse and vulnerable backgrounds who are using unscheduled or emergency health care. 
4. Examine the factors paramedics need to take into consideration when providing care for patients experiencing abuse or neglect.
5. Justify the importance of intersectionality in high-quality paramedic care. Subject Content Paramedic epidemiology in rural and remote environments and care of geographically isolated patients
Paramedic care of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
Paramedic care of patients with disabilities and their carers
Paramedic care and interaction with patients from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds
Paramedic care and interaction with homeless and Low Socioeconomic Status populations
Paramedic care of victims of intimate partner violence including interagency response models
Paramedic care of victims of abuse and neglect across the lifespan including interagency response models
LGBTQI+ health Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz 60 Minutes 30 N Individual N  Viva Voce 30 Minutes 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Liz Thyer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Other Health (HLTH)