Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3003 Clinical Leadership and Patient Safety Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401097 Coordinator Navin Naidoo Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to clinical leadership, supervision and patient safety in the context of paramedicine.  Students will undertake a 4 week clinical placement block with an emergency ambulance crew, which will in part be used as a basis for reflective learning activities and critical analysis.  Students will explore and discuss concepts of clinical leadership and supervision, drawing from their clinical placement experiences.  Students will learn about leadership styles, principles of clinical education, mentoring and supervision in the field, clinical governance and patient safety. School Health Sciences Discipline Paramedical Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 3014 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Display effective communication skills, ethics and professionalism
Demonstrate consistent safe work practices
Execute intermediate/advanced paramedic skills in a real world environment
Assess a patient, formulate a clinical impression, and implement a prioritised clinical management plan under supervision
Analyse their individual leadership style and identify personal strengths and weakness
Discuss the role paramedics play in contributing to clinical governance, patient safety and quality improvement
Analyse medical error incidents
Discuss strategies for managing paramedic health and resilience
Discuss preceptorship in an ambulance context Subject Content A). During clinical placement
1. A four week clinical placement involving application of skills and knowledge in scene management and patient examination and assessment, clinical decision making, and patient management.
B). Post-clinical placement
1. Clinical placement reflection and debrief
2. Leadership styles and approaches
3. Clinical leadership and professional leadership
4. Clinical supervision and preceptorship
5. Mentoring and preceptorship
6. Patient safety and clinical governance
7. Human factors, error and situational awareness Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 4 weeks S/U Y Individual Y  Multiple Choice Up to 60 minutes 20 N Individual N  Essay 3,000 words 30 N Individual N  Viva Voce Up to 45 minutes 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Navin Naidoo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Other Health (HLTH)