Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3100 Comedy and Tragedy: Dramas of Death and Rebirth Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102914 Coordinator Helen Basides Opens in new window Description This subject examines the writing, performance and theories of Western tragedy and comedy since their beginnings in the ancient world to modern times. In this subject, students read tragic and comic drama, some of which is in translation, as well as key theories of tragedy and comedy. The subject begins with the dramas of the Ancient Greeks, and through an examination of the plays and their context of production, students will be introduced to key ideas about tragedy's and comedy's structure, dialogue, staging, characterisation, audience, and central themes. The subject will trace the development of tragedy and comedy through key periods, including the Renaissance; and it may include a consideration of texts from the twentieth century onwards that have been written for media other than the stage. While tragedy and comedy are intimately linked with ideas about death and rebirth, the subject is closely concerned with the way in which moral choice lies at the heart of both genres. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects LANG 2013 - Comedy and Tragedy Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes Analyse a range of tragedies and comedies and identify the way in which generic conventions of tragedy and comedy are employed or subverted. 
Identify and assess the way in which the context of production of various dramatic tragedies and comedies informs the construction of the plays, including their structure, dialogue, characterisation and themes. 
Analyse and apply key theories of tragedy and comedy.
Explain and analyse the relationship of the plays (and other texts set for study) to contemporary and modern genre theories of tragedy and comedy.
Produce independently researched, critically engaged written discussions on topics relating to the generic and historical study of the set texts. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 10 weeks 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Quiz 4 quizzes
1 hour each
(best 4 out of 5 quiz results) 10 N Individual N  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Helen Basides Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Helen Basides Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Helen Basides Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)