Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7025 Port Entry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400995 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  Students undertaking this subject are expected to have a working knowledge on port entry techniques at commencement.  This subject will extend their knowledge in theoretical and practical aspects, focusing on the port entry techniques and strategies of port placement and management of port site complications.   Students will explore the multitude of port types which are commercially available in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery, the current technologies and tailoring their use in patients to provide optimal surgical outcomes.  By enrolling in this subject, the student will be expected to produce a detailed discussion on various aspects of minimally invasive port entry, exploring the pre-operative and intra-operative nuances of surgical planning and techniques. This will extend the student's knowledge so they can safely and effectively establish port entry in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4766 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery or 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of a Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) with satisfactory completion of RANZCOG written examination as per enrolment restrictions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critique various port entry techniques and their application.
Manage pre-operative and intra-operative nuances of surgical planning and techniques with respect to port entry to safely and effectively establish port entry in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery.
Evaluate commercially available port site equipment and current technologies to appropriately tailor these products to patient care.
Examine port entry complications and manage these complications in a clinical setting.
Review the medical literature on specific aspects of port entry utilising an evidence based approach to enhance patient care. Subject Content Port entry techniques and its application in an operative setting.
Pre-operative and inta-operative surgical planning to ensure effective and safe use of ports in minimally invasive gynaecological surgery.
Various commercially port entry equipment and current technologies.
Port entry complications and management of such complications in a clinical setting.
Review of the medical literature in an evidence based approach to port entry. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 4000 words 65 N Individual Y  Reflection ~1000 words 35 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery (4766) Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)