Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 7044 Theories of Difference and Diversity Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102176 Coordinator Peta Hinton Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students at post-graduate level to contemporary theories and concepts of difference and diversity. The subject will particularly examine feminism, post-structuralism, new materialism, queer theory and critical realism. It will also address specific concepts such as inequality, human rights, freedom and marginalisation. It will apply these theories and concepts to investigations of contemporary social issues and debates related to race, disability, ethnicity, sexuality, gender and other categories of individual identity and collective belonging. The subject will provide a strong theoretical base to the work that students have undertaken in the subject Theories for Critical Practice, and inform the work to be undertaken in the other subjects in this specialisation. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate degree in the Social Sciences or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Differentiate and analyse contemporary theories of difference and diversity
Argue a personal position of difference and diversity
Critically appraise concepts of inequality, human rights, freedom, marginalisation
Demonstrate the application of theories in relation to contemporary social issues of difference and diversity Subject Content 1. What is meant by the terms difference and diversity
2. Concepts of inequality, human rights, freedom, marginalisation
3. Contemporary theories of difference and diversity
4. Assumptions and perspectives and impacts of contemporary theories
5. Developing a theoretical position
6. Linking theories and concepts to the Australian context and social issues Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Proposal 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Peta Hinton Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Graduate Diploma in Global Security and Justice (exit only) (1924) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Master of Cross-cultural Relations (1883) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Social Work (Qualifying) (1792) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)