Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3086 The Novel Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100893 Coordinator Jason Tuckwell Opens in new window Description This subject explores the status and success of the novel as the dominant modern literary form. It examines aspects of the history and development of the novel from the seventeenth century up to the present, along with a range of novelistic texts from one or a number of literary traditions: from classic British and/or American texts to contemporary postcolonial fiction; from the search for the mythical "great Australian novel" to famous and not-so-famous works in languages other than English. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Read and critically examine a range of novelistic texts from one or a number of cultural traditions.
Demonstrate an understanding of a number of fictional modes eg.. modernist, post-modernist.
Describe and evaluate a range of narrative techniques and features - e.g. point of view, narrative time, plot versus story, characterisation, dialogue, structure.
Demonstrate an understanding of changes that have taken place in novelistic forms over a period of time, thereby showing also their understanding of literary genre.
Describe the relationships between the novel and other literary and narrative forms. Subject Content . The origins of the novel in earlier genres such as the poetic epic, the prose romance, and Menippean satire.
. The relationship between novelistic writing and journalism, from Defoe to the present.
. The epistolary novel, from Richardson to the present.
. The historical novel, from Scott to the present.
. Romanticism and the novel.
. Modernism and the novel.
. Postmodernism and the novel
. Focus study of a national tradition; for example, the American novel, the Australian novel, the English novel, the Irish novel, the Scottish novel, etc.
. Novels in languages other than English: French, German, Spanish, Russian, Indonesian, Japanese, etc. - to be studied in translation.
. The novel and high culture: F.R. Leavis and "The Great Tradition".
. "Genre" fiction - such as sci-fi, fantasy, thriller, romance, gothic - and popular culture.
. The adaptation of novels into film and television. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 minutes (5 minutes each) 20 N Individual N  Participation Weekly 10 N Individual N  Essay 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 2,500 words 40 N Individual N Summer Online The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 15 minutes (5 minutes each) 20 N Individual N  Essay 800 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 2000 words 45 N Individual N  Participation Semester 5 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jason Tuckwell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jason Tuckwell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164)