Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 7008 Systems and Network Security Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300696 Coordinator Linh Pham Opens in new window Description This subject is concerned with the protection of information in computing systems and when transferred over networks.  It addresses techniques for securing networking applications and their security arrangements. Students gain an understanding of the fundamentals of the provision of security in networks and systems, as well as an appreciation of some of the problems that arise in devising practical security solutions. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Systems Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5882 - Distributed Systems and Network Security Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of networked and computer systems.  Basic understanding of cryptography. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe fundamental concepts of networked system security and security threats.
Explain encryption techniques.
Analyse and describe common security protocols.
Analyse and describe typical authentication protocols and authorization approaches.
Explain security issues in networked computer systems.
Describe network security in typical networks including LANs and internetworks.
Describe security issues and implementation of secure measures on the Internet Subject Content Security concepts and terminology
Security threats
Cryptography
Authentication
Authorization
Security protocols
Network security
Computer security Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 15 N Individual Y  Report 2000 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual Y  Practical 5 practicals x 2hrs in duration. 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Linh Pham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Linh Pham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Linh Pham Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Cloud and Distributed Computing, Testamur Major (T121) Cybersecurity, Testamur Major (T003) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Certificate in Information and Communications Technology (3701) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Systems (INFS) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Networking, Testamur Major (T009)