Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3034 Emotions, Culture and Community Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100860 Coordinator Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window Description This subject examines forms of cultural expression and collective selfunderstanding articulated as emotional identifications. Topics covered may include shame, pride, responsibility, forgiveness,resentment, hope, disgust, generosity, happiness, hate and love. The subject explores how these have been taken up in contemporary cultural analysis as a focus for understanding affinities and conflicts between individuals and communities and for how Australians imagine their historical interconnectedness. It introduces some key theoretical perspectives that have been, and might be, applied to the study of emotions, culture and community. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the study of emotions, culture and community as a growing area of interdisciplinary inquiry.
Identify and apply a variety of theoretical perspectives relevant to study in this area.
Utilise an extended conceptual vocabulary pertinent to the study of emotions and modes of sociability.
Demonstrate, in written and oral formats, advanced skills in researching and analysing contemporary Australia in terms of the affective dimensions of inter-communal relations. Subject Content Each week focuses on a specific topic relevant to the study of emotions, culture and community in contemporary Australia. Topics may include:
Shame
Guilt
Love
Hope
Generosity
Responsibility
Forgiveness
Resentment
Disgust
Pride
Happiness
Hate Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes and 1000 words 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 1 hour 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)