Academic Handbook Current Edition HORT 7003 Greenhouse Crop Production Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301360 Coordinator Robert Sharwood Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on key concepts relating to the functioning of a range of greenhouse horticultural crops in their environment, biological mechanisms, crop growth and development, integrated pest management, crop production, quality and postharvest technology. Students will learn concepts and knowledge relevant to plant physiology, environmental sciences, horticultural production, food technology, and postharvest physiology. Students will be able to measure and interpret plant physiological, biochemical, genetic, and produce quality traits in greenhouse experiments in the context of the functional diversity in crops. The students will also integrate knowledge using plant growth modelling techniques, interpret model output, and address questions on functional diversity in crops by combining model output and experimental data. School Science Discipline Horticulture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Students entering this subject should have knowledge of one of the following subject areas: horticultural production systems; environmental sustainability analytics; computing and technological applications; marketing principles and business management. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Explain the current greenhouse crop production in Australia in comparison to advancements in international greenhouse control systems.
Articulate key global and Australian challenges and opportunities faced by future greenhouse crop production.
Appraise principles of greenhouse crop production and their effective application and management in Australian and overseas protected cropping.
Apply experimental and modelling skills for a range of greenhouse crops and their suitable production systems.
Communicate the role of greenhouse crop production in contributing to the wider environmental protection, social benefits and business prosperity. Subject Content Greenhouse horticultural crop growth, development and production
Integrated pest management in protected cropping systems
Conventional and molecular breeding techniques for horticultural crops
Methods for monitoring crop physiology in greenhouse environments
Plant growth modelling techniques for managing crop growth and quality
Advances in postharvest physiology for protected cropping products
Relationship between greenhouse production techniques and produce quality
Future global innovations of greenhouse crop production and their use for Australian protected cropping Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Three online quizzes of 60 minutes each including multiple
choice and short answer questions 30 N Individual N  Report One practical report (1,000 words) 15 N Group N  Presentation 15 minutes 15 N Group N  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Robert Sharwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Protected Cropping (3773) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Protected Cropping (3772) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Greenhouse Horticulture, Testamur Major (T107) Horticulture and Viticulture (HORT) Master of Science (3749)