Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 1011 Fundamentals of Marketing Analytics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201085 Coordinator Francine Garlin Opens in new window Description The subject introduces students to the core concepts associated with business analytics in general, and marketing analytics in particular.  The subject aims to provide students foundational knowledge of the range of marketing problems for which business analytics can facilitate solutions.  In doing so, the subject focuses on developing an understanding of the nature and tools of analytics as they may apply to key elements of marketing strategy frameworks from a largely non-mathematical/non-statistical perspective. School Business Discipline Marketing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Distinguish the key concepts and techniques of business analytics with related fields, such as business intelligence, big data, market research, artificial intelligence and machine /deep learning.
Provide advice on appropriate business analytics data, tools and techniques to address specific marketing problems and insights about customers
Use analytic tools to perform simple analysis and data visualisation functions
Explain the central importance of customer value and valuing the customer to an organisational success
Communicate data-driven insights for marketing action to diverse others
Work collaboratively in teams Subject Content 1. Overview of business analytics and marketing practice
2. The nature of data and models
3. Understanding customers through the lens of analytics
4. Tools for analytics in marketing mix decision-making
5. The question of ethics and analytics
6. Maintaining currency and monitoring trends Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 35 N Individual Y  Practical 2,000 word equivalency 35 N Individual Y  Portfolio 4,000 word equivalency 30 N Group Y Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 1 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Francine Garlin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Marketing, Minor (0291) Marketing, Testamur Major (T044) Sales and Marketing (MKTG) Sport Management, Testamur Major (T045)