Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3043 Writing Portfolio Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100582 Coordinator Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window Description In this level 3 foundation subject of the Creative Writing Major, students are guided by experienced, professional writers in producing an extended portfolio of original creative writing, in a genre (or genres) of their choice. Students will read closely from a wide range of literary texts while completing an intensive program of in-class writing and workshopping activities. They will gain skills in reading and interpreting texts from different genres, eras and contexts - including culturally diverse settings. Students will develop skills in drafting, editing and polishing their own creative work, and in situating their writing within the Australian literary and publishing industries. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply key techniques and concepts of creative writing.
Write short creative works (or series of works) using a range of techniques, styles and/or forms.
Develop drafting and editing processes to write more effective creative works.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of key creative writing concepts.
Identify ways in which different cultural contexts can shape and influence creative writing. Subject Content Content will draw from, or elaborate upon, a selection of the following topics:
Close reading of contemporary literary texts from different genres, eras and contexts (including culturally diverse settings)
Close reading of critical literary texts (including book reviews, critical essays, and texts directed towards developing writing skills)
Practical creative writing skills for use across a range of writing genres (including short fiction, the contemporary novel, poetry and creative non-fiction)
Techniques in drafting, editing and polishing one?fs own creative writing
Ways of situating one?fs own creative writing within the broader Australian literary and publishing industries ? and where appropriate, in international and/or online settings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2 x 500 words (or equiv. depending on genre) 25 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,000 words 25 N Individual N  Portfolio 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Participation Weeks 1-14 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005)