Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 7002 Planning and Environmental Regulation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101634 Coordinator Anna Leditschke Opens in new window Description This subject provides students with an understanding of the planning process from both a state and local government perspective.  The subject will cover concepts related to the planning process, focusing on development control and regulation issues, planning instruments and development applications.  It will also address the areas of planning and environment law, with specific reference to the legal framework that regulates planning and development in NSW. School Social Sciences Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret and apply legislation and case law to state and local government planning practices.
Identify, analyse and explain the statutory processes of land-use regulation and development control.
Demonstrate the role of professional planners and advise governments, courts and communities in plan-making and development regulation, assessment and review.
Develop and evaluate planning policies, plans, regulations and development proposals. Subject Content 1. Environmental protection and development
2. Making decision and taking action
3. Implementation issues
4. Planning and the legal framework
5. Development controls within a planning system
6. Development applications and assessment
7. Strategic planning; planning systems and property markets
8. Scope of environmental law
9. Planning and environmental dispute resolution Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 30 N Group Y  Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Anna Leditschke Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Bachelor of Research Studies (Planning) (8119) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Environmental, Testamur Major (T058) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management and Planning (1676) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Science (3749) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)