Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 1032 The Developing Child Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102046 Coordinator Louie Liang Opens in new window Description An in-depth knowledge of child development is essential for educators to plan and provide culturally and developmentally appropriate practices for children in the early years. In this context, this subject aims to explore the diverse nature, processes and aspects of children’s development from conception to 12 years of age. The subject investigates the physical, socio-emotional, cognitive, language, moral, creative, spiritual and academic domains of development. Students will gather an understanding of the evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research. The role of family, community, and other sociocultural influences will also be considered in relation to understanding the holistic nature of children’s development. Students will apply their knowledge of theories and methods of child study in the compilation of a Child Portfolio. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 1033 - The Developing Child (WSTC)
TEAC 1041 - The Developing Child (Block) Restrictions - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain children’s development from conception to 12 years of age across all domains;
Analyse the major theories and contemporary research relating to children’s development and apply theoretical understandings of child development in their learning;
Discuss evolving methods used to develop theory about child development – from traditional case study approaches to contemporary brain research;
Demonstrate understanding of the diversity in families, cultures, environments and communities and consider the implications for children’s development, health, care and education;
Critique developmentally and culturally appropriate practices and principles and their implications for care and education that is responsive to needs of children and their families;
Apply knowledge of observational and assessment techniques to the study of children’s development;
Document and interpret observations using related theory and research and suggest implications for planning for children’s developments. Subject Content An overview of theories of children’s development
Child development: history, methods and sociocultural perspectives of child development
Biological foundations of child development, prenatal development, and birth
Child development: physical and motor development; cognitive development; language development; socio-emotional development; moral and spiritual development; creative and academic development.
Diversity in families, cultures and communities and importance of working with children, families and communities professionally and ethically.
Methods of observation, documentation and analysis of child development.
Developmentally and culturally appropriate practices for children in the early years and their application to education contexts.
Academic literacy, including analytical and reflective writing and the organisation of a child portfolio. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 x 40 minutes 20 N Individual N  Critical Review 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Danielle Tracey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Danielle Tracey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Danielle Tracey Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Childhood Studies, Major (0330) Childhood Studies, Minor (0330) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Education Studies (Birth - 5/Birth - 12), Major (0156) Teacher Education (TEAC)