Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 1003 Electrical Fundamentals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300021 Coordinator Jamal Rizk Opens in new window Description This subject introduces essential electrical engineering concepts that provide students with the basic requirements for analysing, designing, building, and testing simple engineering systems. Students use techniques for analysing different types of circuits based on their knowledge of electrical theory and the characteristics of power, electrical energy, signals, and electrical circuit components. Students have practical activities including conducting experiments in learning how electrical systems work. Students are introduced to Electrical Machines and Renewable Energy systems for a fundamental understanding. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ELEC 1005 Electrical Fundamentals (WSTC) ELEC 1004 Electrical Fundamentals (WSTC Assoc Deg) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the elements in an electric circuit
Apply the basic principles of analysing an electric circuit
Apply nodal,mesh,superposition,Thevenin's analysis DC electric circuits.
Apply the principles of capacitors and inductors as energy storage elements and their first order circuits.
Explain characteristics of electronic devices
Explain basic principles of communication waves
Explain significance of Logic gates and number systems
Explain the operation of transformers, DC and AC machines.
Explain principle of operation of Renewable Energy systems
Explain the elements in electric circuits and electronic devices
Apply appropriate techniques in the analysis of electric circuits
Analyse the principles of capacitors and inductors as energy storage elements and their first order circuits
Explain the operation of transformers, DC and AC machines
Outline the key principles involved in the operation of Renewable Energy systems
Use appropriate equipment in conducting experiments in a safe manner. Subject Content Introduction to basic electrical quantities
Kirchhoffs current and voltage laws
Series and parallel resistors, current and the voltage divider rules
Nodal and Loop analysis, The principle of superposition and Thevenin and Norton equivalent circuits
Energy storage elements,capacitors and inductors. Transient Response of first-order circuits
An introduction to Electronics
An introduction to communcation waves
Logic gates and number systems
An introduction to Transformers, Electrical Machines
An introduction to Renewable Energy systems Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 4 x Inclass tests 
15 minutes per test. 10 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1 hour and 30 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Practical 6 x Laboratories 3 hours per practical 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours  50 N Individual Y Summer The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    In class test 4 x Inclass tests  15 minutes per test. 10 N Individual   Intra-session exam 1 hour and 30 minutes 20 N Individual   Practical 5 x Laboratories 3 hours per practical 20 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours  50 N Individual Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Concentration (0282) Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) (3771) Bachelor of Engineering Science (3691) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)