Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2035 Screen and Sound Practices 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102406 Coordinator Vincent Tay Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the principles of screen and sound media production with an emphasis on digital video, new media, and short film drama production. Students develop an awareness of screen language through critical reflection upon classic and contemporary cinemas as well as practical exercises. Through a series of specialised modules and workshops, students develop their knowledge and skills in media production including camera coverage, visual storytelling, genre, narrative, montage, and sound design and editing. The subject is complemented by technical training in camera, sound and editing software. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2034 Screen and Sound Practices Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of key media concepts, histories and practices, and their relevance within both Australian screen media industries and in an international context.
Examine the multiple ways in which screen media arts are connected with other related fields (design, visual arts, cultural studies and humanities).
Critique the short film form: aesthetics, production, narrative, and exhibition, and apply new directions and new technologies in short film production.
Demonstrate effective technical skills in camera and sound recording.
Differentiate among the key crew roles in producing a short film: Director, Producer, Cinematographer, Sound Designer, Production Designer, Editor, Writer.
Demonstrate knowledge of key aspects of Australian and international industries, festivals and markets to prepare students for professional careers in film and media across television, cinema, independent video, and new media.
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge in the analysis and content creation of screen media applying critical, reflective, and creative skills.
Adequately assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content - concepts, techniques and practices in screen media production and Creative content production
- Australian screen industries
- short film development in non-fiction and fiction genres Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Production Exercise - Non Fiction No longer than 3 minutes in total 35 N Individual   Production Exercise - Drama or Fiction Scene No longer than 3 minutes in total 35 N Individual   Perform a Series of Technical Tasks relating to the Camera, Sound, Lighting and Editing Departments 35 tasks, which can be completed in one day 15 N Individual   Critical Review 500 words or equivalent.  15 N Individual   Mandatory Attendance at 80% of Classes  S/U Y Individual Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM)