Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3018 Neurological Rehabilitation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400998 Coordinator Reem Rendell Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on client assessment and evidence-based physiotherapy management in neurological rehabilitation. This will require strong communication skills, ethical and professional behaviour and an appreciation of interprofessional care. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include clinical reasoning in neurological physiotherapy assessment and treatment, implementation and evaluation of evidence-based interventions and management of complex conditions. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3017 AND
REHA 3003 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3001 AND
REHA 3016 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy or 4733 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours). Students in this program are required to participate fully in practical classes. This involves disrobing to shorts and singlet or swim-suit equivalent in mixed gender classes. Students will practice hands-on physiotherapy examination and treatment techniques on both genders, and will personally experience these techniques which will be performed on them by other students and relevant academic staff. Assumed Knowledge Human anatomy, human physiology, neuroanatomy, and pathophysiology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply prior knowledge of anatomy, physiology, neuroscience and pathology to inform physiotherapy care for people with complex neurological conditions 2. Formulate an appropriate person-centered and evidence-based assessment on an individual with a complex neurological condition to inform treatment 3. Apply Australian Physiotherapy Standards to perform assessments on individuals with complex neurological conditions in an effective, ethical and professional manner. 4. Formulate, perform, monitor and adapt evidence-based interventions to best meet individual needs. 5. Develop a care plan which integrates the skills of a multidisciplinary team to meet individual needs. 6. Prioritise interventions and workload to meet the needs of individuals by taking into consideration the available resources within a rehabilitation setting Subject Content Within an adult neurological rehabilitation context:
1. Theoretical framework for assessment and clinical reasoning
2. Subjective assessment, investigations, notes, bed charts and handover notes
3. Objective assessment including observational movement analysis, objective measures of impairments, activity limitations and participation restrictions
4. Evidence-based treatment approaches and management strategies
5. Evaluating treatment outcomes
6. Working effectively within a multidisciplinary team
7. Patient education and advocacy
8. Discharge planning
9. Prioritisation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 30 minutes 40 Y Individual Y  Short Answer 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y  Presentation 20 mins 20 N Group N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Luke Jenkins Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)