Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3018 Professional Transition Project Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400786 Coordinator Richard Thomas Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to make the transition from undergraduate student life to professional life. Professional Transition Project provides students with a unique opportunity to integrate knowledge gained throughout their course from an operational, practical and theoretical perspective into an engaging project. Students will engage in comprehensive projects which bring together real world opportunities and health science theory. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Bachelor of Health Science or Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) or 6000 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science. Students in the Bachelor of Health Science or Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science must have completed 120 credit points. Students in the Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) must have completed 200 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate action and theory through a project
Develop suggestions and recommendations in response to contemporary industry based problems
Critically reflect on the development of professional capabilities gained throughout the course
Apply a team based approach to real world problem solving within a health science context
Demonstrate reflective oral and written skills Subject Content Theory and practical experience of:
1. Teamwork in a simulated health environment
2. strategic goal setting and follow through
3. identifying and problem solving industry problems
4. Critical reflection in action Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract Up to 2  pages 30 N Individual N  Report 2000 words 30 N Group N  Reflection 1000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Richard Thomas Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Paramedicine) (4669) Public Health (PUBH)