Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7013 Practice of Vascular Sonography 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401297 Coordinator Donna Oomens Opens in new window Description This subject aims to further develop students' understanding of the essential aspects of working in a clinical environment and will help to consolidate their imaging skills. Students will learn how to image a variety of arterial and venous pathologies. Considerable time will be spent in the clinical environment refining imaging techniques, and students will prepare and evaluation of their imaging skills. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7012 Co-requisite(s) RADI 7017 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4765 Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy & physiology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Employ imaging protocols in the practice of cerebrovascular, DVT and peripheral arterial assessments (CLO 4)
Accurately perform extensive measurements of anatomical and physiological parameters to provide high quality information for referring health professionals (CLO3)
Formulate conclusions based on the images and measurements to produce a worksheet or/and written report for health professional (CLO 5)
Collaborate with vascular sonographers and other health professionals to enhance professional practice and development (CLO 7) Subject Content Image Acquisition & Measurement III
1.Cerebrovascular imaging
2.Imaging DVT
3.Peripheral arterial imaging
Professional Practice and Development II
Communication III Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,400 words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 90 mins 30 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 90 50 Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook 600 studies S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Donna Oomens Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography (4765) Radiography (RADI)