Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 6001 Transnational Crime and Human Security Threat Credit Points 10 Coordinator Sharon Kwok Opens in new window Description Transnational crime generates serious individual and collective social harm, and poses human security threats at national, regional and international levels. It challenges states, exploits individuals, compromises economies and the environment, destroys civil society, and ultimately weakens democracy. This subject begins by assessing the concepts and definitions of transnational crime. Instead of offering a general overview of transnational crime, this subject focuses on various types of transnational crime and examines their emergence, impact, and control from a human security perspective, by examining how globalisation affects criminal organisations. While considering the security threat that transnational crime and criminal organisations pose at national and global levels, this subject aims to equip students with a holistic understanding of transnational crime beyond conventional criminological perspectives, hence nurturing students’ ability to develop just and human security focused policies to prevent and control transnational crime. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 7047 - Transnational Crime Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate degree in criminology, criminal justice or a related social science area, or equivalent. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Review the rival theoretical explanations of transnational crime 
Assess the causes of transnational crime and globalisation of criminal organisations
Evaluate the impact of various types of transnational crime and criminal organisation  
Critique the obstacles to develop global criminal organisations 
Examine relevant prevention and control strategies in responding to transnational crime Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 500 words 25 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,000 words 35 N Individual N  Critical Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sharon Kwok Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)