Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7073 Animal Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Francine Feld Opens in new window Description This subject examines the legal and ethical relations between humans and non-human animals. Students will apply theoretical perspectives to support their own stance regarding human/animal relations. They will critically evaluate the legal framework which governs those relations. The subject will examine a range of topic such as the moral and legal status of animals, animal rights versus animal welfare, farming and husbandry practices, animals in scientific research, animals in the entertainment industry, wildlife protection and endangered species, companion animals and Indigenous approaches to animal welfare. Students will engage in professional learning activities and use a range of legal research tools to demonstrate their application of this body of law in practice. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 AND LAWS 7061 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3090 Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 2826 Juris Doctor program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply a range of philosophical approaches to the status of non-human animals.
Construct solutions using advanced knowledge of animal law. 
Critically evaluate legal issues and apply relevant legal principles to problems involving the use of animals and propose solutions. 
Demonstrate legal research skills to assess legal frameworks for the regulation of relations between humans and non-human animals. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes/1500 words 30 N Group/Individual N  Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Critical Review 3,000 words 50 N Individual N  Participation During class 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Francine Feld Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)