Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 1045 Creative Enterprises and Information Technologies (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description With rapidly increasing industry advancements and emerging technologies professionals need to develop a well-rounded skill set, making them adept in today's technology-driven business environment. This subject delivers a combination of information technology, communications and creative concepts that will give you the ability and skills to excel in your future workplace. You will also develop an understanding of audiences from cross-cultural and international perspectives and develop your ability to creatively communicate complex ideas to a variety of stakeholders. Students will develop the ability to not only consider current challenges and opportunities, but also anticipate what the future may require. School Business Discipline Business and Management, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify the different types of creative industries and enterprise structures and how this applies to their chosen career path. 
Demonstrate an understanding of data visualisation, analytical and communication tools for professional practice
Develop a creative concept for a target audience 
Apply project management practices in a variety of organisational and cultural settings
Explain relevant ethical, cultural and legal issues to their chosen profession 
Identify issues affecting information systems in industry. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 400 words or equivalent 20 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words plus demonstration 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 900 words 30 N Individual N  Peer Review 7 min per student (half presentation and half Q&A) 20 N Group N Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)