Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7047 Contracts Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201048 Coordinator Souheir Edelbi Opens in new window Description This subject deals with legal principles related to the development and application of contract law with an awareness of broader political, social, economic, cultural and ethical considerations. Contracts covers the formation of contracts, the requirement of writing, privity of contract, contractual terms and their interpretation, breach of contract, discharge of contractual obligations and elements vitiating its formation such as misrepresentation, misleading and deceptive conduct, mistake, undue influence, unconscionability, duress and discharge. Statutory developments are also considered such as the Contracts Review Act 1980 (NSW) and the Australian Consumer Law, as are the historic and theoretical aspects of the development of the law of contract. Students will collaborate in problem/case-based learning, engage with online learning materials, and participate in a Moot and viva voce to develop knowledge and skills in authentic ways. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7056 Fundamentals of Australian Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 2003 Contracts Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically apply legal principles to solve complex contract law problems with reference to relevant legal authorities.
Examine legal principles relevant to the development and application of contract law within a broad political, social, economic, cultural and ethical perspective.
Critically analyse the main theoretical perspectives and assumptions underpinning contract law.
Present persuasive arguments in written and oral formats including, through communication and collaboration strategies. Subject Content Theories of Contract.
Formation of Contracts.
Formalities.
Capacity.
Privity of Contract.
Contractual Terms.
Breach of Contract.
Vitiating Elements.
Statutory developments.
Discharge of contract.
Exploring contractual issues in Indigenous contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation  10 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2,800 words 45 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Souheir Edelbi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Souheir Edelbi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Souheir Edelbi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law (LAWS)