Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 7018 Cloud Systems Development Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301386 Coordinator Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window Description The majority of backend systems supporting modern mobile applications as well as commercial applications are built to run on the cloud. This requires a shift of design where reliability, scalability, performance, and security are key considerations in every stage of the software development process. This subject incorporates the AWS Academy Cloud Developing curriculum, to support learning in the areas of designing, developing, deploying, and monitoring applications for the cloud. Through the completion of an applied project, students will implement the techniques they have learned to enable communication and coordination between services, options for data persistence in the cloud, and optimisation of applications for, potentially, millions of users. Students completing this subject can pursue careers as Cloud Engineers and Software Developers. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 7004 Equivalent Subjects INFO 7008 Modern Software Architectures Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Student must know how to write Objected-Oriented code. Students must have familiarity with networking concepts. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate cloud systems and services, as well as design approaches for cloud applications.
Analyse relevant monitoring systems to solve production issues.
Critically review system requirement determining appropriate cloud-based applications, approaches and services.
Design a complete cloud-based application using cloud technologies.
Implement cloud APIs and web-based applications and services using a range of technologies. Subject Content 1. Cloud application design and architecture
2. Data persistence in the cloud
3. Strategies for application optimisation
4. Cloud application deployment and monitoring
5. Cloud application communication and coordination
6. Cloud application security Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Group Report: 5000 words; Presentation: 15 minutes 30 N Group N  Practical 90 minutes 30 N Individual N  Quiz 10 minutes (per Quiz) S/U N Individual N  Report 2500 words 25 N Individual N  Viva Voce 5 minutes 15 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rodrigo Neves Calheiros Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Cloud and Distributed Computing, Testamur Major (T121) Cybersecurity, Testamur Major (T003) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)