Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 2047 Venture Makers Foundations Credit Points 10 Coordinator Inu Rana Opens in new window Description The world we inhabit is ever changing - and so is the way that we will work in the future. Technology continues to evolve and impact the way consumers, business and government interact. Graduates today encounter an increasingly complex working environment and need to be equipped with the mindset, skills-set and tools to navigate uncertainty and complexity, whilst having the capacity to identify and act on emerging opportunities presented by changing environments. The Venture Makers Foundations subject is a highly innovative, unique transdisciplinary entrepreneurship training and development experience. This subject provides students with an entrepreneurial perspective and the skills that are needed to thrive and navigate disruption. The subject is delivered in partnership with innovative Industry partners and is authentic, immersive, and relevant, enabling students to develop real professional industry networks locally, nationally, and internationally. Students will develop core entrepreneurial skills and enhance their work readiness as they create and design solutions for solving complex, real-world challenges with potentially significant global impact. The subject is available to all bachelor degree students as an elective. School Graduate Research School Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 2049 Restrictions Student must be enrolled in an undergraduate degree Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject students will be able to: Culture (Short Course I): 
1. Evaluate the feasibility of an opportunity in the context of complex business and entrepreneurial environments 
2. Analyse entrepreneurial behaviour and innovative business models to suit contemporary economic, social and environmental contexts Practice (Short Course II): 
3. Derive innovative methods for complex problem solving using a human-centric approach to entrepreneurship
4. Apply technology-based tools for evaluating commercial opportunities to address local and global scale challenges Ecosystem (Short Course III): 
5. Identify opportunities to contribute to, and benefit from entrepreneurial ecosystems
6. Build relationships and networks to communicate effectively within an entrepreneurial environment Subject Content This subject introduces you to the key steps and skills for innovation and for pitching your ideas. We cover: Innovation Design thinking framework
1. Divergent and convergent thinking tools and techniques
2. Growth mindset
3. Value proposition
4. Prototyping
5. Storytelling Pitching Special Requirements Essential equipment Access to a computer with camera and microphone, access to software for the development of reports, presentations Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 800 words 20 N Individual N  Portfolio Portfolio (option 1) 10 minutes or Venture Innovation Challenge - Applied Project (option 2) 7 minute video 40 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes 40 N Group N Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM)