Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3003 Accreditation Studies (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101943 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description This is a compulsory subject in the Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) and the Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars. It aims to provide practice and constructive feedback to students preparing for the accreditation examination. A pass in the subject in at least one of the following options: Interpreting, Translation into English, or Translation from English, with a minimum mark of 70%, will make students eligible for NAATI accreditation on completion of the rest of the requirements of the course. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1013 AND
LANG 1017 Co-requisite(s) LANG 3049 OR
LANG 1014 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0187 - Accreditation Studies (UG) LANG 3047 - Interpreting Accreditation Studies UG LGYA 1667 - Translation Accreditation Studies UG Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 1519 - Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) or 1692 - Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars. Students should only enrol in this subject in their final semester. Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and their other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes demonstrate understanding of the format, standards and requirement of NAATI accreditation examinations;
apply the translation and/or interpreting techniques necessary to pass accreditation examinations;
produce accurate and idiomatic translations and/or interpreting;
critique interpreting and translation quality through implementing principles of translation/interpreting quality assessment. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam  S/U N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Language and Literature (LANG)