Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 1012 Midwifery Professional Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401219 Coordinator Fiona Arundell Opens in new window Description In this subject students will learn the necessary midwifery skills for the provision of woman-centred antenatal care. In a simulated practice environment students will gain practical skills to provide midwifery care to the woman and her supportive others during pregnancy. This subject will also focus on preparing students for clinical placement. The importance of work health and safety and effective communication and documentation will be reinforced. This subject will include recruitment of women for the continuity of care experience. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 1009 Equivalent Subjects NURS 1007 Introduction to Midwifery Practice Experience Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4684 Bachelor of Midwifery. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Identify the role of the midwife during pregnancy using a primary health care framework.
2. Describe legal, ethical and professional frameworks that are pertinent to midwifery.
3. Describe the principles of safe holistic care that is culturally appropriate and respectful of a person’s dignity, culture, values, beliefs and rights within a simulated or antenatal environment.
4. Utilise, under guidance, communication skills to enhance the development of partnerships and professional relationships.
5. Describe legislation, regulations, policies, guidelines and other relevant standards or requirements in midwifery. Subject Content Introduction and orientation to Midwifery Practice Units
o Introduction to the Clinical Practice Unit
o Introduction to Professional Skills book
o Midwife Standards for Practice
Introduction to Bachelor of Midwifery Professional Practice Portfolio
o Midwifery Continuity of Care Case Notes
o Midwifery Log of Practice Experience
o Midwifery Clinical Summaries
o Bachelor of Midwifery Course Handbook
o NSW Health requirements for Clinical Placements Midwifery as Primary Health Care
o Promoting health and well-being
o Comprehensive assessment of health and wellbeing
o Introduction to informed consent and advocacy
o Legal and ethical principles Role of the Midwifery Student
o professional behaviour
o documentation and confidentiality
o resolving issues in practice (dealing with challenging people, managing feedback, clinical  assessments, conflict resolution)
o recognising impact of personal values and beliefs
o reflective practice
o work health and safety
o standard precautions
o protective isolation
o manual handling and transfers
o bullying
o injury prevention and infection control
o receiving feedback on practice from women and midwives
o support for students - university and hospital based support for students Communication Skills for working in Partnership
o therapeutic use of self
o skills to communicate effectively with the woman, her family and others during antenatal care
o building rapport
o intercultural communication
o use of an interpreter Core skills
o Comprehensive health assessments: gathering personal data including social, cultural, physical, emotional, spiritual and environmental factors.
o Baseline observations - blood pressure, temperature, pulse, respiration, height; weight; BMI calculation; urinalysis assessment and reporting
o Abdominal Examination during pregnancy
o Calculating Expected Date of Birth
o Auscultating Fetal Heart Rate - Pinards and Doppler
o Undertaking documentation within legal frameworks
o Understanding the NSW Health ‘Between the Flags’ DETECT program including ISBAR and A-G assessment
o Numeracy practice and diagnostic assessment
o Reflection on practice Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites On-campus Students 1. National Criminal History Check: Students must have a current (expiring 3 years from date of issue) check valid for their entire course. A valid National Criminal history check must be an Australia wide check, include the student's full name matching their Student ID card and date of birth and not have any offences listed. If a student has a criminal history identified on their check, they must provide a Clinical Placement Authority Card (CPAC) or conditional letter from the NSW Health Share Employment Screening and Review Unit https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/careers/student_clearance/Documents/appendix-10-student-application.pdf 2. A NSW Working with Children Check (WWCC) clearance letter issued under the category of volunteer valid for their entire course. 3. A current approved first aid certificate valid for their entire course, approved provider courses can be found at http://training.gov.au 4. A completed vaccination/immunisation card with all serology results containing expiry dates and currency must be maintained by the student to ensure compliance for their entire course 5. NSW Undertaking/Declaration form 6. Completed any additional health forms required (such as NSW Health Code of Conduct, Health Student Undertaking/Declaration and Tuberculosis (TB) Assessment Tool) 7. Relevant Local Health District specific documentation as requested. Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Essential equipment Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Simulation Role play of communication skills for working in partnership S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection 500 words S/U Y Individual Y  Practical Exam 25 minutes S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Portfolio Not specified S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 36 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Fiona Arundell Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Midwifery (4684) Nursing (NURS)