Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7006 Financing Cities in the Global Economy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101315 Coordinator Khandakar Farid Uddin Opens in new window Description Financing infrastructure to keep cities running and growing at a time when governments face new financial constraints is a key challenge for urban managers. In order to be able to contribute to the debate about financing cities it is important for future urban managers to develop a basic financial literacy, understand and draw on the options for financing essential urban functions in Australia cities and elsewhere, and assess the tensions involved in public and private financing pathways. This subject addresses these needs through both theoretical and practical approaches to the city as a set of flows within a wider urban network of relations. Students develop their understanding via interactive lectures, case studies, fieldwork exercises and assignments. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate financial literacy including knowledge of the makeup of public sector accounts at the scale of the city.
Examine the basic elements of infrastructure funding in the context of a city as a set of flows.
Synthesise analyses of infrastructure, economic functions and flows, employing relevant technical tools for data collection, analysis and mapping.
Critically evaluate and assess financial management of cities using efficiency, effectiveness and equity criteria.
Use efficiency, effectiveness and equity criteria to devise resolutions to the tensions in public and private options for the operation and control of urban functions. Subject Content The city as a set of flows
The city as a set of financial flows
Financing options in Australia and overseas
Models for evaluating financing options
The nature of public and private involvement in urban services and their financing
The construction of integrated models for financing cities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Critical Review 800 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words plus illustrations 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Khandakar Farid Uddin Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Bachelor of Research Studies (Planning) (8119) Building (BLDG) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management and Planning (1676) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Urban Management and Planning (1873) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063)