Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1024 Introduction to Engineering Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300964 Coordinator Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window Description This subject encourages students to explore the professional responsibilities and challenges faced by Engineers. Students are introduced to emerging issues and approaches in the engineering profession, with particular attention given to using a systems approach to solve engineering problems. Students engage in a semester-long research and problem solving task that addresses technical, environmental and social sustainability imperatives and fosters fundamental research and communication skills. Special emphasis is placed on lifelong learning, academic literacy and professional skills including information literacy, project management, engineering drawing and teamwork which equip students for subsequent academic and professional pursuits. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1015 Engineering and Industrial Design Practice LGYA 5705 Introduction to Professional Practice ENGR 1016 Engineering Design and Construction Practice ENGR 1033 Engineering Design and Construction Practice LGYB 0482 Engineering Design and Construction Practice ENGR 1026 Introduction to Engineering Practice and ENGR 1025 Introduction to Engineering Practice Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Solve an engineering problem using systems approach.
Identify and reflect upon the professional responsibilities of the Engineer.
Deploy information literacy skills to investigate a complex problem context, alternate approaches and possible solutions.
Deploy academic standard literacy skills including academic writing, argument construction and referencing.
Communicate research and solutions clearly and professionally in visual and verbal presentations and an illustrated report.
Plan, manage, actively contribute to and assess a team based project.
Identify and apply environmentally and socially sustainable design criteria to a complex problem.
Produce and read an engineering drawing representing simple structures, landscapes, and electric circuit. Subject Content Sustainability
Complex systems
Innovation
Problem-solving
Professional responsibility
Information literacy and the research process
Critical thinking
Academic literacy
Teamwork
Time and project management
Professional communication skills: written, visual and verbal presentations
Systems approach
Engineering Drawing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 - 2000 words 30 N Individual N  Report 3000 - 4000 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ee Loon Tan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) (3740) Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) (3771) Bachelor of Engineering Science (3691) Civil Engineering, Testamur Major (T131) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Construction Engineering, Testamur Major (T132) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Humanitarian Action in Practice, Minor (0327) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Mechanical Engineering, Testamur Major (T103) Mechanical, Testamur Major (T036) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Robotics and Mechatronics Engineering, Testamur Major (T104) Robotics and Mechatronics, Testamur Major (T037) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129)