Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1012 Engineering Physics (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700153 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject serves as an introduction to the fundamentals of engineering physics with appropriate applications in a wide range of engineering and industrial design systems. Students will be expected to solve problems by applying the laws and principles of engineering physics in the following areas covered by the subject - units and vectors, linear and circular motion, photons, electrons and atoms, force systems and equilibrium, work and energy applications, dynamics of rotational motion, fluid dynamics, heat and thermodynamics, periodic motion and wave phenomena, electricity and magnetism. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1011 - Engineering Physics ENGR 1013 - Engineering Physics (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge HSC physics and HSC mathematics (not General Mathematics). Learning Outcomes Identify and apply System Internationale (SI) units in the areas covered in this unit
Analyse and solve problems by applying the laws and principles of engineering physics in the following areas covered by the subject ? units and vectors, linear and circular motion, photons, electrons and atoms, force systems and equilibrium, work and energy applications, dynamics of rotational motion, fluid dynamics, heat and thermodynamics, periodic motion and wave phenomena, electricity and magnetism
Plan, conduct and document experiments performed in the laboratory on ? measurements and uncertainties, acceleration due to gravity, coefficients of friction, standing waves, spectral line analysis.
Interpret the results of experiments against the theory including the estimation of experimental uncertainties. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 mins 10 N Individual N  Practical 2 hour 25 N Individual N  Applied Project Model+ 600 words 25 N Group N  End-of-session Exam 90 min 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)