Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5018 Languages Curriculum 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102892 Coordinator Mark Richards Opens in new window Description This subject provides pedagogical and curriculum enrichment to the teaching of Languages and builds on methods and concepts from earlier Languages Curriculum subjects.  It explores approaches to language teaching; designing and implementing classroom language learning activities; developing the skills and knowledge to teach the language macro-skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking; classroom management; materials evaluation and selection; technological aids to language teaching/learning; reflecting on and evaluating teaching. Pre-service teachers will develop subject and assessment plans and demonstrate a knowledge of curriculum, learning and assessment theory. The subject requires students to develop critique resources and practices for effective teaching and learning in Languages. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7027 AND
TEAC 7004 AND
TEAC 7032 Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have a relevant Language Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of contemporary theory and practice of language teaching to the design of language learning tasks and activities for a range of language learners.
Understand and respond to diverse language learners to support them in exploring out language learning tasks.
Modify, and create innovative language teaching and learning materials for a specific learner group using digital and multimodal forms.
Apply in teaching artefacts evidence-based practices in teaching the language macro-skills (reading, writing, speaking, listening) to groups of language learners 
Reflect on principles of reflective and quality practice for language teaching to a range of assessment tasks to identify areas for improvement and refinement.
Design and select innovative teaching resources that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching students to become culturally responsive.
Understand and contribute to the discipline of language teaching. Subject Content What is the pedagogical and curricular approaches to teaching Languages across the curriculum from K-10?
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to engage in professional learning networks to support Languages Education? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2018) Languages Stage 6 Syllabuses. Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)