Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2026 Design Semantics: Exploring Product Form Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301289 Coordinator Karen Yevenes Opens in new window Description Products can engage our senses to evoke an emotional response or mediate an experience. This is a powerful psychological tool for industrial designers to understand in terms of the design interface as it provides a strategic opportunity for innovation. In this subject students will create meaningful and active product relationships, and use product semantics as an agency for proposing design solutions in areas such as health and well-being, ageing populations, and sustainable design. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 2006 - Design Studio 1 Themes and Variations ENGR 2008 - Design Studio 3 Design Process and Function Assumed Knowledge Students will be required to have basic workshop skills and/or model-making skills. A basic understanding of graphics software, for example Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, is assumed. Learning Outcomes Apply the principles of product semantics as a strategy for creating innovative product solutions.
Develop a design brief to address a design problem.
Create 2D concepts and 3D prototype models to communicate a design proposal.
Validate the product design through testing and evaluation of the designed solution.
Apply professional practice and team collaboration in the context of a design project. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1 x A4 Written document 
(1500 words)
 10 N Individual N  Applied Project 3 x A3 Annotated Graphic compositions; 
1 x A3 Process Diary 
(30 pages); 
 40 N Individual N  Portfolio 1 x A3 set of detail drawings; 
1 x Full scale model
 50 N Both (Individual & Group) Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Karen Yevenes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)