Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2072 Logic, Argumentation and Post-Truth Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 800241 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description The subject is designed for high-achieving students enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership or Advanced degrees. This subject prepares learners for leadership roles by developing their skills in logical and rhetorical argumentation, and persuasive techniques. Throughout the subject, students will appraise the structure of logical and rhetorical arguments, apply persuasive techniques, and examine the influence of post-truth on global issues and public opinion. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 2035 - Logic Rhetoric and Argumentation Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their program with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this subject. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the subject under the BCL. Enrolment in the subject for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes 1. Critique fallacious argumentation from different disciplinary perspectives.
2. Analyse and apply persuasive techniques in interdisciplinary contexts.
3. Contrast logical persuasive techniques and post-truth in relation to local and global issues.
4. Evaluate post-truth perspectives and the role of social media in shaping public opinion.
5. Construct verbal and written arguments that effectively incorporate techniques learned in this unit.
6. Critically reflect on their learning in the unit, in relation to developing personalised strategies for logical and philosophical argument argumentation. Subject Content 1.  Aristotle’s persuasive techniques, ethos, logos, and pathos.
2. The structure of philosophical arguments – deductive and inductive - validity and soundness
3. Formal and informal fallacies and euphemism.
4.  Logic, reasoning, post-truth and public opinion.
5. Differentiating between logically structured arguments (premises to conclusion) and rhetorical arguments designed to persuade.
6. Post-truth - four theories of the press. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 1200 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Critical and Systems Thinking, Minor (0287) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)