Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3025 Paramedicine Trauma Care Credit Points 10 Description This subject deals with pathophysiology and pathogenesis of traumatic injuries, conditions arising from uncompensated environmental exposures, and toxicological emergencies. Students are taught how to care for these patients in the out-of-hospital setting. Best patient outcomes are achieved when out-of-hospital care forms part of a trauma system. Therefore, paramedics are required to make decisions to achieve the provision of the right care and transfer to the right hospital in the right time. This unit aims to develop the knowledge and skills to safely and effectively care, treat and manage adult and paediatric patients who have sustained traumatic injury or injuries, conditions arising from uncompensated environmental exposures, and toxicological emergencies. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4790 Bachelor of Paramedicine. Assumed Knowledge First and second year of the Bachelor of Paramedicine Learning Outcomes Examine and appreciate the domestic and international incidence of a range of major traumatic injuries.
Link patient presentation to underlying pathophysiology and pathogenesis of traumatic injuries and environmental conditions.
Demonstrate and analyse evidence-based out-of-hospital management of major trauma, environmental emergencies and toxicological emergencies.
Describe effective integration or out-of-hospital care into a trauma system.
Apply clinical reasoning and problem-solving in complex patient presentations and situations.
Explain and apply principles of out-of-hospital trauma care to the paediatric population.
Apply relevant NSQHS standards to out-of-hospital trauma care provision. Subject Content The subject covers the paramedic response to a range of major traumatic, environmental and toxicological emergencies. To achieve this the subject will cover the following topics: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2,500 words 30 N Group N  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Practical Exam Up to 1 hour 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Paramedicine (4790) Other Health (HLTH)