Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 3013 Music and Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101152 Coordinator John Encarnacao Opens in new window Description Analysis enables students to acquire a deep and rich understanding of music. This subject will focus on the formal designs, rhythmic, melodic and harmonic structures of notated music, and the structures, contexts and processes of non-notated music. It will include notated and recorded music from the popular song traditions, as well as studio recordings, electronic music and improvisation. It will consider the strengths, weaknesses and cultural biases of various modes of analysis, including the use of musical notation. Students will learn to apply these methods in lectures and tutorials. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 2001 OR
PERF 2004 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0424 - Analytical Models in Music Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Employ the tools acquired in musicianship and music theory to the analysis of music.
Undertake analyses of notated and recorded song forms.
Utilise approaches used in the analysis of improvised and electronic musics.
Explain the theoretical models used to analyse notated and recorded music.
Critically evaluate the perspectives that analytical models bring to bear on the music analysed.
Describe the importance of the cultural context in the analytical process.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Develop, implement and promote Art of Sound activities and projects, guiding and collaborating with students across the Music program to further progress leadership, advanced production and performance skills. Subject Content Students will work on topics to include:
1. Style and genre analysis
2. Musicianship and music theory as applied to the analysis of music
3. The analysis of recorded song forms
4. Approaches to the analysis of improvised and electronic music
5. Models use to analyse recorded music
6. The perspective that analysis brings to bear on music
7. The connection between models of analysis and their cultural contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 800 words 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 90 minutes 30 N Individual N  Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Participation Minimum 2 hours per fortnight S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact David Cashman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Studies, Major (0343) Performing Arts (PERF)