Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7075 Mediation Credit Points 10 Coordinator Miriam Ziegler Opens in new window Description Mediation is an essential skill for law graduates. This subject will provide students the opportunity to develop mediation skills in a practical way that enhances their employability and professionalism. It will focus on the skills and theory of mediation, specifically in the context of the Australian legal system. Students will further develop the knowledge and skills introduced in Alternative Dispute Resolution (which is a prerequisite for this subject). This subject is experientially based, and students will engage in professional activities such as role-plays. The theory and practice of mediation will be critically considered, as will the social and legal contexts within which mediation is practised. The subject will adopt a multi-disciplinary approach and will consider issues of culture (including the perspectives of First Nations peoples), power, mediator neutrality and ethical dilemmas for the mediator. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7044 Incompatible Subjects JUST 2013 Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 2826 Juris Doctor program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically and independently analyse contemporary issues in mediation.
Effectively prepare for mediation by conducting pre-mediation processes
Independently conduct mediation, including an evaluation and in-depth analysis of the practical, procedural, ethical and legal issues
Communicate clearly and persuasively, referencing according to the Australian Guide to Legal Citation.
Demonstrate advanced oral communication skills. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Ongoing 10 N Individual N  Reflection 2,000 words in total 45 N Individual N  Professional Task 45 minutes 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Nadja Alexander and Laurence Boulle, Mediation Skills and Techniques 3rd ed (LexisNexis, 2019) Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Miriam Ziegler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)