Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1020 Japanese 101 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100085 Coordinator Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to the Japanese language and some related culture. It is intended for beginner students only, who have never studied Japanese. This subject will cover the most basic level of the Japanese language in all four skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. The Japanese characters covered in this subject include the hiragana and katakana.  Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Course Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes identify important characteristics of the Japanese language;
demonstrate basic skills in listening and speaking in Japanese;
apply these skills to interact, at a very basic level;
recognize and write basic Japanese characters (Hiragana and some Katakana);
demonstrate awareness of basic cultural information necessary for speaking the language. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 800 Japanese characters 30 N Individual Y  Practical 1.5 hours 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Hiromi Muranaka Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Education Studies, Minor (0129) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)