Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 1067 Introduction to Culture and Society (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Elisha Barrett Opens in new window Description Introduction to Culture and Society examines the ways culture, as both representation and practice, shapes individual and collective identities. It will focus on the rituals and routines of everyday life, and their connection to our wider social relationships. The subject will also explore inequality both in Australia and globally, the social structures that generate this inequality and the cultural processes by which we mark status and social distinction. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 1017 - Everyday Life
HUMN 1066 - Introduction to Culture and Society
HUMN 1018 - Everyday Life (WSTC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in Extended College programs must have passed 40 credit points of the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject.
Students enrolled in Integrated courses must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes 1. Exercise sociological and cultural concepts and frameworks to make sense of human experience in ways that go beyond ‘common sense’ accounts of the world.
2. Recognise the role of symbolic creativity in everyday life and its connection to social relations and institutions.
3. Develop an ethnographic understanding of cultural practices, both familiar and distant, in order to make sense of their larger significance to social groups.
4. Research the dimensions of social inequality in Australia and globally
5. Identify both the ways social inequalities are marked in cultural terms, and the wider structures and institutions that serve to reproduce those inequalities.
6. Understand how globalisation and global inequalities shape everyday life in contemporary Australia. Subject Content Module 1: Culture, Society and Everyday Life
Week 1: The Idea of Society
Week 2: Cultural Representation
Week 3: Cultural Practices of Everyday Life Module 2: Practising Culture: Self, Community and Symbolic Creativity
Week 4: Presentation of Self - Getting Dressed
Week 5: Communal Rituals - Ethnographies of Gift Giving
Week 6: Food Consumption and Everyday Multiculturalism Module 3: Economic Inequality, Boundary Marking and Social Distinction
Week 7: Dimensions of Inequality in Australia
Week 8: The Geographies of Inequality: Poverty and Prosperity in Sydney
Week 9: Parsing Poverty: From the Undeserving Poor to the Bogans Module 4: The ‘Australian Way of Life’ and its Contradictions
Week 10: Divisions of Labour: Housework, Care Work, Gender and Race.
Week 11: The Backyard & the Bush: Culture & Nature in the Age of Climate Change
Week 12: Conclusion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 mins 10 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 20 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 1000 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Elisha Barrett Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7049) Diploma in Arts Extended - Arts (7161) Diploma in Arts Extended - Interpreting and Translation (7166) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary (7187) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Primary (7144) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Secondary (7145) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (6005) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Primary) (6019) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6021) Diploma in Communication Extended - Creative Industries (7149) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)