Academic Handbook Current Edition AGRI 3005 Animal Production Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300854 Coordinator Adrian Renshaw Opens in new window Description Animal production is about producing animals for food, companionship and conservation. This subject aims to develop an understanding of the major animal production systems used for food and fibre and other resources in Australia (intensive and wildlife), and to apply this knowledge to improving problematic issues and understanding topical issues. Topics will focus on the application of animal production principles to these production systems. School Science Discipline Agricultural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects AGRI 3004 - Animal Production Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points of Bachelor of Natural Science or Bachelor of Science subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define, describe and demonstrate a depth of knowledge various animal production systems in Australia.
Model animal production systems demonstrating flows of activities and resources, demonstrating how inputs and activities can be manipulated to modify production outputs.
Demonstrate how domestic and international animal production systems function in relation to food quality, food safety and food supply.
Describe how intensive and extensive animal production systems differ in relation to relative productivity, geographic location and environmental impact.
Explain how animal production systems fit within a framework of bioethics, animal welfare, animal rights and biotechnology.
Describe how animal production concepts and principles can be applied to the management of wildlife and other natural systems.
Demonstrate knowledge of new technologies, innovations, processes and current issues in animal production.
Demonstrate the ability to mount a coherent argument with respect to key topical issues related to animal production systems in relation to social, environmental and production outputs and the ability to outline those arguments in both spoken and written formats. Subject Content Range of animal production systems and the various outputs and outcomes that result from those systems.
Intensive Animal Production.
Genetic Engineering.
Deer Production.
Wildlife Harvesting.
Wildlife Production Systems.
An international example - case study.
Topical areas in Animal Production. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students who opt to enrol in this subject are strongly recommended to obtain a Q-Fever vaccination, and Tetanus vaccination/booster. Students who cannot evidence vaccination may be precluded from activities on the Farm, and/or internships with third parties. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 40 N Individual N  Debate 5 min and 500 words of notes 20 N Individual N  Report 4,000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Adrian Renshaw Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185)