Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7006 Counselling and Psychotherapy Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102364 Coordinator Ireni Farag Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the experiential learning from Foundations of Psychotherapy and Counselling 1 by offering further practice in interpersonal counselling skills in dyadic and group contexts. Students will consolidate and expand the range of skills appropriate to the unfolding counselling relationship through continued skills practice. Students will develop capacity to analyse their own responses in depth and respond reflexively in their work with clients, within an increased understanding of the therapeutic relationship and of what makes counselling effective.  Students will continue to participate in small group experiential training, thereby increasing their awareness of interpersonal and group processes. School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 7004 OR
WELF 7009 Equivalent Subjects WELF 7005 - Counselling 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1817 Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling, 4595 Master of Art Therapy or 1770 Master of Social Science. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advancing skills in listening, empathic responding, use of silence, and exploratory questioning.
Practice beginning skills in immediacy and other 'skills of encounter' such as providing feedback, and consider the ethical issues and dilemmas encountered in the 'responsible use of self' in counselling and therapy.
Facilitate the stages of a short-term counselling relationship.
Apply skills in engaging in a therapeutic relationship with clients.
Identify how to assess the effectiveness of counselling with and for clients, and how to work constructively toward closure.
Critically analyse and make comparisons between individual and group counselling as experienced by both client and counsellor. Subject Content 1. Continuing counselling skills practice in practice sessions. 
2. Further development of existing and new skills in listening, empathic responding, use of silence and exploratory questioning, immediacy, highlighting of conflicts, providing feedback, and interpretation. 
3. Consideration of concepts of transference and countertransference, and the ‘use of self’ within the counselling/therapy process. 
4. Exploration of the use of psychoeducational and experiential groups within professional counselling practice, including the development of group facilitation skills. 
5. Critical consideration of how change occurs, inside and outside of the counselling relationship, and of how counsellors know when clients are ‘better’. 
6. Exploration of when and how to end therapy - the concept of ‘termination’ as mature, premature or delayed. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 2300 words comprising of : 1000 word paper + 10 min audio extract (500 word equivalent) + 4 X 200 word session summaries 35 Y Individual Y  Case Study 2700 words comprising of : 1700 word essay + 500 word analysis of transcription from 10 minute audio extract (500 word equivalent) 40 Y Individual Y  Report 1500 word written assignment 25 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ireni Farag Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Certificate in Counselling (1648) Graduate Diploma in Counselling (1647) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Psychotherapy and Counselling (1817)