Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3016 Cyber Security and Behaviour Community Placement Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102905 Coordinator Alana Maurushat Opens in new window Description This subject is the first placement for the work integrated learning embedded in the Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour degree. Students will do an internal cyber security placement with the new live security operations centre known as the Western centre for Cybersecurity Aid and Community Engagement (Western CACE).  Western CACE will provide training for students as well as members of the small business communities with cyber preparedness training.  Students will be guided through handling real cyber attacks and assisting small business respond to these attacks.  There are a paucity of government services that address and aid small business with live cyber attacks.  Western CACE fills this necessary gap where students will exit knowing how to deal with ransomware, payment diversion fraud, data breach, emerging threats, and the security control implementations post-incident.   The placement with Western CACE acts as a stepping stone to their next placement which is their external industry placement (INFO 3017 Cyber Security and Behaviour Industry Placement). A two day induction/workshops will be conducted in the week prior to commencing with Western CACE with ongoing professional development onsite within the Centre as directed by the Centre Manager, Director and industry leaders.     WSU Online students will not do a face to face placement at Western CACE unless they are able to attend face to face sessions in Sydney for both INFO 2008 Cyber Incident Response and Risk Management and this unit. WSU Online students will have the following options: an approved placement at the student's place of work, or via the student's networks and contacts OR an industry project report based on industry-generated case studies and problems. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects INFO 3012 - Cyber Security and Behaviour Placement 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Program 1837 - Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour and successful completion of 140 credit points. Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of computer systems, architecture, infrastructure, internet protocols, types of cyber threats, best practice for cyber incident response, and networking protocols. Learning Outcomes Explore contemporary real-world cyber security issues in community service. 
Propose solutions or methods to aid organisations with risk management, and cyber incident response. 
Apply tools, techniques and software utilized in computer security responding cyber security issues/incidents emerging in community services. 
Construct reports and presentations that can effectively communicate complex information related to cyber security and behaviour in community service.
Reflect on professional development needs to enhance evidence-based practice in cyber security in community service. Subject Content Industry placement or industry project for the development of cyber incident response skills towards a professional career in cyber security.
Customer and client care in dealing with cyber incidences. 
Technical and process knowledge for the essential security controls through national and international standards.
Learn, train and guide small businesses through data breaches, ransomware, payment diversion fraud and emerging threats. 
Reflect on emerging threats, and how to modify approaches to improve cyber incident response. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Pitched for 15 to 20 minutes of content S/U Y Individual Y  Report 2,000 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 2 days per week over 12 weeks = 24 days plus 2 days of induction for total of 26 days. S/U Y Individual Y Industry Project The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 750 words S/US Y Individual   Proposal 750 words S/US Y Individual   Report 4,000 words (incorporates 1,2,3) S/US Y Individual   Presentation 15 minutes S/US Y Individual Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alana Maurushat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Alana Maurushat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alana Maurushat Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Other information Technology (INFO)