Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 1004 Financial Concepts and the Language of Business (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description A business needs to know how to generate funds and ultimately invest it in resources that will bring it the most benefit. Keeping track of this money as it flows in and out of an enterprise is critical for success which is why we refer to it as speaking the language of business. In this subject, you will learn how to keep consistent records as dictated by accounting principles. With the basics in place, you will further your understanding of where funds come from and how financial information can be used to make informed choices about the future direction of the business. School Business Discipline Banking, Finance and Related Fields, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Interpret financial statements.
Demonstrate through real-world examples how accounting concepts apply to businesses in the 21st century.
Identify the potential sources of funds.
Explain the principles of time value of money.
Analyse financial statements for decision-making. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview 5 minutes 15 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 500 words equivalent 25 N Individual N  Case Study 750 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes 30 N Group N Structures that include subject Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)