Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7002 Advanced Topics in Networking Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300252 Coordinator Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the advanced features of networked systems and the emerging network technologies and services. The subject provides students with an in-depth understanding of relevant protocols, the emerging standards, and standards organisations. The emphasis of the subject is on development of the student skills to enable them to do proficient research and development works and studies in the computer networking discipline. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Computer Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Students should be familiar with the fundamentals of computer networking. In particular, students should have a good understanding of the OSI model, the TCP/IP protocol suite, and current Internet and networking technologies. Therefore, it is strongly advised that students must have either taken an appropriate subject in computer networking (e.g., 300695 Network Technologies), or have equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain the important concepts relevant to emerging networks and the Internet technologies and architecture.
Explain the contemporary issues in security, forensics, and reliability of modern networked systems.
Explain the important issues in modern applications and services relying on networked systems.
Evaluate the technologies and performance of emerging networks.
Demonstrate their proficiency with key research and development issues in the field of networking and network-based services. Subject Content Network Technologies Background
Research, Resources, and Citation
Contemporary Issues in Computer Networking
Advanced Networked Systems Forensics, Security, and Reliability
Advanced Network-based Services
Trends in Networking and Internet Technologies
Methodologies for Research in Networking Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,000-1,500 words, 10-20 minutes each 50 N Individual Y  Case Study 6 pages long 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Seyed Shahrestani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information Technology, Testamur Major (T011) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Networking, Testamur Major (T009)