Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7017 Professional Practice and Communication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301005 Coordinator Maria Mikhail Opens in new window Description This subject introduces some of the concepts, standards and techniques associated with the current professional practice for engineering and information technology students. These include the various elements of engineering and IT practice, basic knowledge of contract laws and legal responsibility, competence in verbal and written communication, and an understanding of ethical considerations. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Display skills in all aspects of communication, including for technical and non-technical, and academic and public audiences.
Evaluate information relevant to IT and engineering topics, using the full range of information-searching tools.
Describe and model ethical and professional codes of conduct for IT and engineering professions.
Demonstrate the concepts related to business risk management, security and privacy of information.
Explain legal, social and environmental issues related to computing, IT and engineering.
Explain project management principles and recognise their impact in the leveraging of professional practice in IT and engineering.
Work effectively as both leader and member of a team, to design, manage and complete a number of projects, and to resolve conflicts. Subject Content Academic and professional writing
Oral and visual presentation
Ethics, ethical behaviour and professional responsibility
Intellectual property rights
Risk management and management of data security
Project management
Contracts and arbitration
Work integrated learning and professional portfolio Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words  30 N Individual Y  Report 3,500 words  30 Y Group Y  Presentation 5 minutes (per student)  15 N Group/Individual Y  Case Study 2,500 words  25 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maria Mikhail Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maria Mikhail Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Data Science (3751) Graduate Certificate in Information and Communications Technology (3701) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Data Engineering (3802) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Master of Science (3749) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Other information Technology (INFO)