Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 1008 Sustainable and Ethical Industry Practices (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Anne Bertoldo Opens in new window Description This subject deals with the local, national, and global sustainability issues concerning human interactions with the natural and built environment. With a focus on UN Sustainable Development Goals, this subject uses case studies in innovation and scientific methodology to provide the practical and theoretical knowledge needed for students to think critically about ethical responsibilities contributing to the sustainable management of natural and built environments. Students will also learn how science and society interact in the management of resources. Using the concept of ecologically sustainable development as a foundation, students will research contemporary industrial problems relating to resource extraction, manufacturing and recycling. Students will communicate their research and make recommendations for improving sustainability. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing Destination College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: 1.  Recognise the relevant and required ethical conduct and behaviour within which your chosen profession is practiced. 2.  Relate UN Sustainable Development Goals to sustainable and ethical practice in your chosen profession. 3.  Explain the requirements for sustainable and healthy design in the natural and built environment. 4.  Appreciate Indigenous Australians people’s connection to the land and how this relates to the environmentally sustainable use of resources. 5.  Identify and apply environmentally and socially sustainable principles to a complex problem. Subject Content •  UN Sustainable Development Goals & your professional responsibilities •  Socially and environmentally responsible development •  Indigenous Australian people’s connection to the land. •  Rehabilitation of Mining areas/Landcare. •  The role of Innovation in finding ethical and sustainable solutions to industry practices from resourcing to recycling. •  Lifecycle analysis •  Adapting industry practices to climate change •  Sustainable and ethical use of water resources •  Case studies in innovation and sustainability in industry •  Twenty first century contaminants & innovative solutions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words 25 N Individual N  Portfolio 1000 words 40 N Individual N  Viva Voce 10 minutes 35 N Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Environmental Studies (ENVL)