Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 2013 Circuits and Signals Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301352 Coordinator Leigh Sheppard Opens in new window Description This subject will be offered at Engineering Innovation Hub - Hassall St, Parramatta campus.  This subject covers the fundamentals of circuit, system and signal analysis on which most other courses in the electrical engineering curriculum are built. The subject provides a foundation in frequency domain analysis and in transform methods, as well as significantly extending alternate current analysis, transient analysis and other fundamental circuit analysis tools. Although there is a practical program in the laboratory, the theory aspects of this course are the primary focus. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 1009 Restrictions Must be enrolled in 3771 Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply transform methods in the analysis of continuous-time linear systems. 
Explain the functions involved in the interaction between signals and linear systems. 
Analyse simple and complex electric and magnetic circuits in the time and frequency domains. 
Describe concepts related to AC power analysis. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 9 x weekly supervised in-class lab session activities   and 5-page log book. 20 Y Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC)