Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7017 Urban Transformation Studio Indigenous Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 301398 Coordinator Rob Meyerson Opens in new window Description Urban Transformation Studio Indigenous introduces students to concepts and processes relating to project planning, working with country and perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities, consulting with First Nations groups, engaging with Indigenous knowledge in the Australian context and working collaboratively with stakeholders to understand site, brief and budget requirements from multiple perspectives. The studio will engage with a real-world design project supported by First Nations consultation and expert mentoring giving students opportunities to implement aspects of Indigenous knowledge in their design process, project development, feasibility and design outcome. Students will gain skills in project development that includes intensive site analyses, the evaluation of multiple design options, designing the program through consultation and then implementing approaches with stakeholder feedback to satisfy the site and spatial requirements of the community. Students will learn about existing forms of knowledge and cultural histories in regard to site, as well as the ethical and cultural tools to engage with meaningful and appropriate consultation and co-design for major public projects. Through the design process, students will apply creative imagination, an understanding of design precedents, emergent knowledge, and skills in critical evaluation to create a detailed proposal for the given site and its community. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) ARCH 7015
AND
ARCH 7016
AND
NATS 7057 Equivalent Subjects ARCH 7011- Urban Transformation Thesis Studio 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3761 Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Demonstrate an awareness of the knowledge, worldviews and perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples in regard to engagement processes and co-design of a public building and its site.
2. Undertake a detailed site analysis with an awareness of context, working with country, indigenous forms of knowledge and cultural histories in the architectural design process. 
3. Participate in collaborative processes and co-design principles, incorporating First Nations knowledge, to formulate a programmatic project brief for a public building.  
4. Establish a collaborative framework and design process by engaging diverse stakeholders and implementing clear communication protocols.
5. Apply non-hierarchical systems of thinking and co-design practices to showcase an integrated, well-researched, and culturally responsible approach to a complex design problem.  
6. Undertake independent research, precedent analysis  and critical  thinking to  communicate a comprehensive design proposal to diverse audiences, while responding to various challenges Subject Content 1. Complex programmatic project brief and building type in an urban transformation context and taking into account Indigenous notions of caring for Country.
2. Developing strategic frameworks, engaging multiple stakeholders, including Indigenous community representatives, and using a collaborative approach to design development.
3. Conduct independent research, including Indigenous Knowledges, analysis, and theory to inform design speculation and propositions
4. Attendance to issues of environmental sustainability, caring for Country, regulation, construction, technology, procurement, social, ethical, and disciplinary concern 
5. Reflective and research-driven writing to develop an area of specific individual enquiry Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Construction Site Induction Safety (White Card) must be obtained in Semester 1 of program (or prior). Essential equipment Laptop with required software, per program 3761 requirements.  Students are required to purchase consumables such as paper, card, plastic, plywood, adhesives, blades, and other essential materials for assessment tasks. Students will also need to pay for their own plotting and printing costs. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Drawings and/or models and 500 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 40 N Individual N  Portfolio Drawings and models and 500 words
 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Rob Meyerson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761)