Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2024 Engaging with Children, Families, Colleagues and Communities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102645 Coordinator Deborah Bennetts Opens in new window Description This subject explores the importance of engaging with children, families, colleagues and communities of diverse backgrounds to foster a child's learning, health and well-being. Preservice educators will reflect on complex interrelationships between theories, research, policies and practices and the importance of positive relationships and partnerships with children, families, colleagues, and communities. Students will explore discourses associated with disadvantage through the analysis of children's life experiences and contexts. In this way, preservice educators will gain an understanding of the nuances of working collaboratively and in partnership with children, families, colleagues, and communities, including strategies to work ethically, sensitively and confidentially. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1876 B Education (Primary) or 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have successfully completed 40 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of children and families within an ecological context and the influence on learning, health and well-being;
Discuss the complex interrelationships between learning, children, family, community contexts and policies;
Reflect on theoretical principles and current research on changing practices of collaborating with children, families, colleagues and communities, and specialist professionals, including community liaison officers;
Evaluate the application of a broad a range of strategies to effectively partner with children, families, colleagues and community in learning contexts;
Reflect on ethical, sensitive and confidential approaches to working collaboratively;
Analyse contemporary approaches to strengthen engaging with children, families, colleagues and community;
Work collaboratively to design a responsive community program that enhances outcomes for children, families and communities. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 400 words 10 N Individual Y  Case Study 1000 words 40 N Individual Y  Report 1600 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Deborah Bennetts Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Deborah Bennetts Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Diploma in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1878) Teacher Education (TEAC)