Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 2010 Conservation Priorities and Process Credit Points 10 Coordinator Kate Umbers Opens in new window Description Conservation Priorities and Practice examines the procedures involved in real world conservation interventions and their impact on biodiversity. You will develop the skills to assess the threatened status of species and ecosystems, and how decisions are made to prioritise resource allocation. You will be encouraged to think about conservation recovery plans in state, national, and international policy and governance frameworks. You will assess how conservation outcomes are managed on different land holdings such as private land including on farms (agroecology) and how biodiversity offsetting is applied. You will build a cross-disciplinary awareness of biodiversity conservation practices and how to engage with diverse interest groups. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions None Learning Outcomes Analyse conservation assessments and recovery plans for species and ecosystems.
Explain the practical implications of Australian conservation legislation.
Assess decision science tools in order to assign conservation priorities.
Critically analyse how conservation projects are conducted on different land holdings including the application of biodiversity offsetting
Propose strategies to engage a broad range of interest groups, including government agencies, Non-Government Organisation’s (NGO’s) and indigenous and community groups, with conservation projects. Subject Content Threatened species and ecosystem identification and prioritization.
Conservation assessment mechanisms at state, commonwealth and international levels for species and ecosystems. 
Application of management for the conservation of threatened species and ecosystems, including biodiversity offsetting
Conservation strategies for stakeholders on different types of land holdings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hr each 30 N Individual N  Proposal 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Proposal 1500 words 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Rights of nature : a re-examination D. P. Corrigan ed 2021 Routledge, ISBN : 1000386139
Garnett et al 2018 Recovering Australian Threatened Species: A Book of Hope CSIRO Publishing Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kate Umbers Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Conservation Science, Minor (0317) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Sustainability, Tourism and Environment, Major (0305)