Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 1010 Environmental Building Design (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700255 Coordinator Robert Paluzzano Opens in new window Description This subject explores the important parameters that are used to facilitate sustainable change in the built environment. Building design is a tool to minimise the use of scarce resources and reduce the impact on the natural Australian landscape. Improving the standard of liveability in urban and peri-urban communities is addressed through the development of holistic building design solutions. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Construction Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BLDG 1009 - Environmental Building Design Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise the importance of energy and water efficiency to the sustainability of our built environment
Review the available strategies that can be used to improve the life cycle performance of buildings
Identify the major common weaknesses in current residential building design
Prioritise environmental parameters for a specific building project
Integrate their knowledge of environmental design in the context of a medium density housing development Subject Content 1. Sustainable building design
2. Environmentally friendly building materials and systems
3. Green rating schemes for buildings
4. Energy, water and waste management in buildings
1. Sustainable building design
2. Environmentally friendly building materials and systems
3. Green rating schemes for buildings
4. Energy, water and waste management in buildings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 3D CAD model and 2D drawings 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Robert Paluzzano Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Robert Paluzzano Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Diploma in Building Design Management (7108) Diploma in Building Design Management Extended (7183) Diploma in Building Design Management/Bachelor of Building Design Management (6031) Diploma in Construction Technology (exit only) (7169) Diploma in Construction Technology Extended (7184) Diploma in Construction Technology/ Bachelor of Construction Technology (6045)