Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 3070 Taxation Law Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200187 Coordinator John Azzi Opens in new window Description This subject covers the constitutional basis of taxation, the process of determining income tax liability, the concept of income tax and allowable deductions, taxation of fringe benefits, taxation of certain entities (partnerships, companies and trusts), tax accounting, trading stock provisions, tax administration and practice, taxation planning and avoidance, and the Goods and Services Tax. School Law Discipline Taxation Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 2010 - Law of Business Organisations Incompatible Subjects LAWS 4008 - Revenue Law Restrictions Students enrolled in 2502 B Laws (Non graduate entry), 2788 B Bus/LLB or 2840 B Bus/LLB (Honours) cannot enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain the key elements of the Australian Income Tax System and the key tax law principles.
Apply understanding of legislation, cases and rulings to analysing and solving practical problems, examining theoretical legal issues and performing tax calculations. Subject Content 1. The constitutional basis of taxation
2. The process of determining income tax liability
3. The concept of income tax and allowable deductions
4. Taxation of fringe benefits
5. Taxation of certain entities (partnerships, trusts, companies and superannuation funds)
6. Tax accounting
7. Trading stock provisions
8. Tax administration and practice
9. Taxation planning and avoidance
10. The Goods and Services Tax Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 minutes per quiz 10 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Participation Every week 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact John Azzi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting, Testamur Major (T046) Bachelor of Accounting (2783) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Business Regulation, Governance and Compliance, Major (0165) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Law (LAWS) Management, Testamur Major (T043) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)