Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7041 Effective Working Relationships Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102146 Coordinator Kerry Staples Opens in new window Description From 2020 students should note that core subjects are now taught in semesters rather than half yearly sessions. This subject supports the development of students' knowledge and skills by analysing a range of consultation models; examining the perspectives and needs of families as well as professionals from different discipline backgrounds; and developing effective interpersonal communication skills, collaborative problem solving, dispute resolution, teamwork and teambuilding.  In addition, professionals with advanced knowledge of inclusive education and disability studies may serve as agents of change within their professional setting. The subject explores this role and encourages students to reflect upon how they may enact this ability to advocate inclusive education and facilitate the capacity of others. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Special Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1682 Master of Special Education; 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary); 1720 Master of Inclusive Education; 1721 Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education or 1911 Master of Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the changing nature of service delivery for individuals with additional needs, and the implications for the way professionals partner, facilitate, consult and lead.
Determine the varied and multiple perspectives of key partners (e.g. the individual, families, other professionals).
Analyse the efficacy of models of practice and the implication for working relationships and roles.
Evaluate key professional and personal skills required in the field.
Reflect on personal and professional attributes and skills that may assist or hinder their capacity to partner, facilitate, consult and lead.
Create professional goals to develop skills to partner, facilitate, consult and lead. Subject Content 1. Critique of the changing nature of service delivery and the shifting roles of professionals.
2. Exploration of the multiple roles and vital partnerships experienced by professionals.
3. Perspective-taking for the individual, families and other professionals.
4. Models of practice and ways of working (e.g. team around the child).
5. Review of empirical research that evaluates the impact of partnership models.
6. Analysis of key skills required in the current field (e.g. communication, conflict resolution, case management).
7. Reflection on personal attributes and skills as well as critiquing previous professional experience.
8. Goals for professional and personal growth in relation to partnering, communicating and facilitating. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Case Study 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Kerry Staples Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Educational Leadership, Testamur Major (T134) Graduate Certificate in Education (1913) Graduate Certificate in Inclusive Education (1721) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Inclusive Education (exit only) (1722) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Learner Wellbeing, Testamur Major (T137) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Inclusive Education (1720) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)