Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7037 Migration Practice and Theory 2 Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 201030 Coordinator Marial Lewis Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the practical processes involved in migration practice as a registered migration agent in Australia. The subject covers topics such as the interview consulting process with clients, the regime for lodging valid visa applications (including the methods of lodgement and preparation procedures) and Freedom of Information requests and practical aspects of communicating with the Department. This subject also provides students with the opportunity to undertake a capstone practical placement program with a registered migration agent business in Australia.   NOTE: All students must attend a mandatory onsite intensive two-day weekend workshop to address practical aspects reflected in the Occupational Competency Standards of the Department of Home Affairs. Students may also undertake a five day capstone practical placement program to gain professional experience in the migration agent industry in Australia. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7007 AND
LAWS 7003 AND
LAWS 7004 Co-requisite(s) LAWS 7038 AND
LAWS 7036 Incompatible Subjects LGYA 4914 - Migration Law in Practice Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 2819 Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Conduct the interview consulting process between a migration agent and prospective client and migration agent and client.
Conduct visa application tasks including preparing, reviewing and lodging visa applications.
Solve migration law problems for clients in practical contexts.
Interact with statutory instrumentalities to process regulatory migration requirements.
Communicate relevant information about migration legal issues to legal and non-legal audiences. Subject Content This subject is a capstone Work Integrated Learning (WIL) subject with a WIL placement or a Professional Project option. The subject include scenario based activities/placement activities which incorporate migration practice oriented tasks such as preparing visa applications, drafting ministerial intervention applications and undertaking a service/costs agreement. As a capstone unit, it will draw on the skills and knowledge students have developed throughout the Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law program.
Unit content includes:
1. The interview consulting process;
2. Lodging applications;
3. Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (GIPA Act) applications;
4. Visa application preparation, review and lodgement;
5. Communication with statutory instrumentalities;
6. Interviewing and consultation in a migration law context. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students are prohibited from working with children as part of their Professional Placement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words 20 N Individual N  Quiz 60 minutes 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Option 1: a) 5 days b) 1,500 words Option 2: 1,500 words 60 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Jason Donnelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Marial Lewis Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Australian Migration Law (2819) Law (LAWS)