Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2058 Wellbeing and Promoting Positive Learning Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102129 Coordinator Erin Mackenzie Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. The purpose of this subject is for prospective teachers to develop an understanding of the individual and contextual factors which influence children's behaviour and to apply this knowledge to building and maintaining positive learning environments. The subject focuses on proactive and preventative measures through the establishment of a healthy learning ecology.  It draws upon professional experiences to apply sound theoretical foundations to base approaches to responding to a range of student behaviours while simultaneously promoting student mental health, wellbeing and resilience.  The subject provides support for the development of an integrated management plan that reflects the diverse nature of children's behaviour and is informed by both theory and a critical evaluation of personal and professional dispositions. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2013 - Personal Development Health and Physical Education 2 (AREP) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 - Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe children’s development, cultural and socio-cultural factors influencing students' learning and behaviour.
Explain the nature and causes for children's behaviour.
Implement a repertoire of preventative and proactive strategies to promote positive learning environments and minimise disruptive behaviour.
Evaluate a range of theoretical approaches to student discipline.
Analyse the influence of teacher behaviour and discipline practices on the behaviour and wellbeing of students from diverse backgrounds.
Implement a range of management and well-being strategies used across teaching and learning contexts and apply effective techniques for intervening in challenging behaviours.
Critically evaluate personal and professional dispositions and their effectiveness for preventing and appropriateness for responding to children’s behaviour.
Establish supportive learning environments where students feel safe to fully participate. Subject Content 1. Influences on children's behaviour: Ecological systems theory and implications.
2. Healthy learning ecology: a proactive and preventative approach.
- Understanding children's development and their diverse needs.
- promoting positive learning environments.
- establishing positive relationships.
3. Theoretical foundations.
- theoretical bases and related discipline models.
- developing A personal philosophy and integrated model of discipline.
4. Teacher and student mental health, wellbeing and resilience: Implications for behavior.
5. Policies, legislation and support services for promoting positive behavior and the mental health and wellbeing needs of students and teachers.
6. Deeping of knowledge and skills to meet the specific needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander young people. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Group Y  Reflection 5 minutes 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)