Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 3029 Biotic interactions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301266 Coordinator Ben Moore Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce the diversity of biotic interactions observed in nature, with an emphasis on their significant roles in maintaining ecosystem function and regulating biological diversity. Major themes will include the role of microbes in plant and animal health and nutrient acquisition via the soil and gastrointestinal microbiomes, the chemical ecology of interactions between plants, and herbivores and pollinators, and interactions between predators and prey. The consequences of biotic interactions for participants can vary from mutual benefit to benefit for one participant and harm for the other, however these outcomes can often change through time and space. Students will be guided to an understanding of how ecological circumstances determine the consequences of biotic interactions. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 2008 AND
BIOS 1001 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 3012 Conservation Biology Assumed Knowledge Students will be expected to apply previous knowledge in mathematics, chemistry, and biology, and demonstrate critical thinking in written and oral formats. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Open book Quizzes (4) on-line 1 h   10 short answer questions or 30 MCQs or an appropriate mixture of both (e.g. 10 MCQs and 6-7 short answers) 30 N Individual   Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual   Practical Report 1,500 words 20 N Individual   Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS)