Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 3080 Street Law Clinic Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jennifer Whelan Opens in new window Description Street Law Clinic provides students with the opportunity to work with peers under the supervision of a Street Law solicitor to research, prepare, and deliver community legal education to partners including secondary schools and/or community organisations on legal topics chosen by these external stakeholders. Students will generate innovative resources to be added to the Street Law digital repository of resources available to the community. Community legal education is a core skill for all lawyers wanting to improve access to legal information for all members of the community. Students will collaborate with the Street Law solicitor and external stakeholders to identify the mode of delivery and content that best meets the stakeholder needs and context. Students will consolidate existing technical legal knowledge, learn new areas of law, develop advanced interpersonal and collaborative communication skills, and enhance their ability to explain complex legal information to diverse audiences. School Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 2015 Restrictions To enrol in this subject, students must have successfully passed 160 Law subject credit points. Learning Outcomes Explore the challenges faced by people of diverse backgrounds accessing legal advice in the Australian legal system and the importance of legal literacy to empower people.
Examine foundational theories of teaching and lesson delivery of complex legal concepts and ideas to a non-specialist audience.
Design accessible digital community legal education resources on discrete legal issues to a non-specialist audience.
Deliver appropriately targeted and accessible community legal education to non-legal  audiences. 
Collaborate with others in delivering community legal education. Subject Content The role of Street Law: critical perspectives.
Reflective practice as a legal professional skill.
Street Law and Community Legal Teaching theory and practice: lessons from the field.
Case studies of access to justice issues in Australia and in Greater Western Sydney.
Designing and developing community education resources.
Delivering community legal education to non-specialist audiences. Work integrated learning Street Law Clinic provides students with the opportunity to work with peers under the supervision of a Street Law solicitor to research, prepare, and deliver community legal education to partners including secondary schools and/or community organisations. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students will need a Working With Children Check consent declaration if working with minors during their placement. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 12 Days S/U Y Individual Y  Reflection (2 x 300 words) 600 words S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Task a. Street Law Session Plan: 600 words b. Street Law Session Presentation: 1000 words c. Digital Street Law Resource: 800 words S/U Y Group Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (2537) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2830) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (2501) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2828) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (2502) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2829) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (2538) Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2827) Law (LAWS) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833) ​Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2831)