Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3008 Crime Prevention and Community Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102038 Coordinator Sharon Kwok Opens in new window Description In Spring 2020 this subject replaced by 102708 - Crime Prevention and Drugs. This subject will examine the theory, politics and practice of crime prevention. It will address current approaches to crime prevention, evaluate their effectiveness and examine emerging strategies in the field. The subject will consider the diversity of crimes and the ways in which some are constructed as preventable and others are not, while discussing the challenges posed by unreported crime, fear of crime and the relation between patterns of victimisation and social disadvantage. The subject will draw on empirical literature linking individual, social and contextual factors to the production and prevention of deviant behaviours and explore the potential of crime prevention strategies for alleviating the social ills associated with crime and deviance. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 2014 - Victimisation and Crime Prevention Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain key theoretical frameworks underpinning approaches to crime prevention
Critically evaluate traditional crime prevention policies and practices
Examine emerging innovations in crime prevention
Develop crime prevention solutions
Communicate crime prevention solutions to community and industry stakeholders Subject Content Fear, insecurity, risk and governance - examining the construction of targets for ?econtrol?f
Defining crime prevention - the origins and theoretical foundations of crime prevention
Social prevention
Physical environment and neighbourhood crime prevention
Drugs, crime, and harm minimisation as crime prevention
Changing spaces for crime prevention
Planning and crime prevention partnerships
Crime control as industry ? a critical look at the growth of the crime prevention industry Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Six quizzes ( five questions each) 30 N Individual   Log/Workbook  1000 words 30 N Group   Professional Task 2000 words 40 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Legal Studies, Minor (0266) Other Society and Culture (CULT)