Academic Handbook Current Edition PHYS 3008 Biomedical Physics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301459 Coordinator Antonio Lauto Opens in new window Description Students completing this subject will be able to apply the principles and practice of physics to advanced biomedical applications, to critically analyse data regarding, and solve problems involving the physics of living systems, and to work with a range of advanced instrumentation. This subject will provide advanced training in biomedical physics and prepare students for career pathways in medical and biomedical physics. The subject content includes concepts of diffusion and Brownian motion; applications of thermodynamics to biological systems and the origin of life; biomolecular self-assembly; nuclear magnetic resonance and magnetic resonance imaging; atomic force microscopy; molecular dynamics simulations; biophotonics; and nuclear and radiation physics in biomedical sciences. School Science Discipline Physics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of Mathematics equivalent to Mathematics 1B is recommended, but not required. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate and communicate how physics can be used to understand and manipulate biological systems, and the role and impact of biomedical physics in society.
Solve complex problems in the physical sciences by applying critical thinking, analytical and problem-solving skills.
Propose innovative solutions to problems and challenges in biomedical systems by integrating knowledge of physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology and other areas of science.
Conduct investigations in biomedical physics in a collaborative environment. Subject Content 1.Diffusion and Thermodynamics of Biological Systems
Brownian motion, dissipation and driving forces, measurement techniques, osmotic pressure,biomolecular self-assembly, the origin and physics of life
2.Bioelectromagnetism
Hodgkin and Huxley nerve conduction model
3.Medical Imaging (MRI)
Sources of contrast, image formation, diffusion-weighted imaging
4.Mechanobiology
Atomic force microscopy, biological rheology
5.Biophotonics
Optics/coherent radiation, photodynamic therapy, fluorescence imaging
6.Nuclear Physics and Ionising Radiation in Biomedicine
PET MRI, MRI linac, radiation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Group N  Applied Project 1500 words 20 N Individual N  Viva Voce 20 minutes 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Antonio Lauto Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Applied Physics, Testamur Major (T078) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Physics and Astronomy (PHYS)