Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2022 Emergency Field Operations:  Supply Management and Logistics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102368 Coordinator Garry Stevens Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject replaced by HUMN 3119 - Emergency Field Operations Supply Management and Logistics. 
This subject will equip students with the required skills to assess organisational capacity to respond to disasters and other complex humanitarian emergencies. The subject will cover logistical frameworks and tools for planning, the sustainable deployment of goods and services, and monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of local and global supply chains.  It will discuss the challenges, ethical, and political dimensions of supply chains and contingency plans in emergency and disaster response contexts. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Co-requisite(s) HUMN 2017 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe logistics principles, processes and frameworks and their adaptations in humanitarian emergencies
Articulate key challenges, ethical issues, and political dimensions of humanitarian logistics
Identify and use recognised tools to plan and monitor supply chains and evaluate their effectiveness.
Critically assess organisational capacity to respond to a humanitarian emergency
Conduct and report a Logistics Capacity Assessment (LCA)
Critically assess the role and effectiveness of the Logistics Cluster in humanitarian response
Articulate principles of sustainable deployment of goods and services Subject Content Logistics and supply chain management: key concepts and frameworks
Logistics in humanitarian emergencies: challenges, standards and the Cluster Approach
Preparedness and procurement: setting up local and global supply networks
Transport, warehousing and distribution
Assessment and monitoring: conducting a Logistics Capacity Assessment (LCA)
Co-ordination and Communication in emergency response contexts
Security and civil-military co-operation
New logistics frontiers: services, cash transfers and market support
Human resource management
Sustainability and performance evaluation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 2000 words per group 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)