Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2049 Professional Experience 2: School-based Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102128 Coordinator Jacqueline Humphries Opens in new window Description The subject is only offered to students enrolled in the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education program. Students will have 20 days placement in schools. During these days students will work in partnership with classroom teachers to further develop and begin to put into practice their knowledge of curriculum and pedagogy. Students will observe classrooms, assist individuals and groups of students with their learning, and begin to teach lessons. By the end of the subject students will have taught lessons in all of the Key Learning Areas, assessed student learning and evaluated their teaching. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects EDUC 2007 - Professional Experience 2 School-based learning (AREP) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Select relevant syllabus content in relation to the planning of lessons for teaching individuals, groups and whole classes.
Design and teach effective learning sequences and lesson plans based on curriculum, assessment and reporting knowledge that cater to students of varying abilities and characteristics.
Identify different curriculum and implementation decisions made by schools.
Assess and interpret student learning using a range of strategies, including formal and informal, diagnostic, formative and summative approaches.
Utilise a range of teaching strategies, spaces and resources (including ICT) that support inclusive student participation and engage students in their learning.
Utilise a range of verbal and non-verbal communication strategies to support student engagement.
Provide timely and appropriate feedback to students about their learning.
Complete Professional Experience placement with demonstrated ability to manage classroom behaviour and to teach across all KLAs. Subject Content Teachers' Professional roles and responsibilities in the classroom and the school community.
Technology in the classroom - teaching and learning supported by ICT - introduction of the 'Weebly' or another web platform.
5 days in residential 1 at a school close to WSU Bankstown.
Professional Portfolios - Using portfolios to show professional growth and development in teaching, and linking with the Australian Professional Graduate Teaching Standards.
10 days in residential 2 at same schools as residential 1.
Presentation of portfolios to show professional growth and development in teaching - linking with the Australian Professional Graduate Teaching Standards. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of volunteer and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
 i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
 ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
 iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link
b) Students will need to:
 i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
 ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
 iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT)
a) Students will need to:
i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
b) Students will need to:
i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 20 days S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance N/A S/U Y Individual Y  Portfolio 1,500 words S/U N Individual Y  Reflection 1,500 words S/U N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Teacher Education (TEAC)