Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 7082 Pedagogy for Positive Learning Environments Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102082 Coordinator Rachel White Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to promote the application and integration of current psychological and educational theory, evidence, and best practices in creating positive learning environments for the purposes of learning, behaviour, and wellbeing. The subject provides a thorough understanding of theoretical and empirical perspectives on behaviour management as they apply to Australian contexts. Skill development will be encouraged through interactive tutorial activities and exercises. Areas of content include: theoretical and empirical foundations of expectation/rules setting and routines; proactive practices in positive behaviour support; student engagement theory; relational pedagogy; using data to inform behaviour management strategies; and whole school approaches to manage behaviour and wellbeing. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7161 Equivalent Subjects TEAC 7086 - Positive Learning Environments TEAC 7113 - Psychology for Teaching TEAC 7141 - Teaching and Learning in Classrooms Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1714 Master of Teaching (Secondary) or 1781 Master of Teaching (Primary) or 1848 Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse complex real-world problems in relation to learning, behaviour and social and wellbeing management including how culturally and linguistically diverse communities’ philosophies and beliefs about learning and behaviour can affect teaching practice.
Model the use of specific proactive strategies and resources to support students’ behaviour and wellbeing.
Understand the need to develop, teach and encourage high expectations for student learning, behaviour, and wellbeing.
Evaluate personal beliefs, values and teaching practices considering theory, applied learning and research evidence relating to effective behaviour management practices.
Articulate the importance of teaching social and emotional skills, both alongside and embedded within substantive curriculum content.
Use self-reflective teaching practices, alongside relevant empirical findings and theory, when applying preventative and restorative behavioural interventions to prioritise student wellbeing and promote individual and whole-class learning outcomes.
Acquire an understanding of the development and application of whole-school frameworks for behaviour management and wellbeing. Subject Content Contemporary classroom management.
Engagement theory and student behaviour.
Understanding student-teacher affective relationships and school behaviour.
Social and emotional learning in schools.
Proactive practices to prevent misbehaviour and encourage engagement.
Intervention strategies for challenging behaviours.
Promoting culturally and linguistically informed student engagement, positive behaviour, and wellbeing in schools. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection Part A: 15 minutes; Part B: 1,000 words 60 N Group/Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rachel White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1716) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) (exit only) (1782) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Graduate Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) STEM (exit only) (1853) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Primary) (1781) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Master of Teaching (Secondary) STEM (1848) Teacher Education (TEAC)