Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 2011 Sustainability, Tourism and Place Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102386 Coordinator Julie Wen Opens in new window Description In 2023 this subject is replaced by TOUR 2003 - Managing Sustainable Places. Sustainability, Tourism and Place provides students with a fundamental understanding of the current debates in tourism management and sustainable places. The complex relationship and interaction among diverse stakeholders involved in places and tourism are explored. The subject encourages a systems approach, and focuses on traveller origin places, tourist experience and community development. The subject aims to assist students in the analysis of the role of tourism in sustainable places by applying a wide range of case studies. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects SPRT 2006 - Outdoor Recreation and Leisure Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes Appraise the scope and complex interactions in places with tourism development;
Assess relationships between tourism and places in terms of the social, economic, and environmental vitality;
Apply theories to critique destination marketing and the sustainability of places;
Evaluate the contribution of tourism to healthy and sustainable places. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam Two hours during semester, 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes presentation per group 25 N Group Y  Report 2,000 words 45 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Sport and Recreation (SPRT) Studies in Human Society (HUMN) Tourism (TOUR)