Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1004 Approaches to Text Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100641 Coordinator James Gourley Opens in new window Description Why do we read books? Reading literary texts is crucial to our ways of understanding the world and ourselves. In this subject students learn that reading resilience, close reading skills and the ability to identify specific literary techniques are foundational to studying literature. Students will read a range of Australian texts including fiction, poetry, short stories, drama and criticism. They will analyse how meanings in those texts are shaped by diverse cultural and international contexts. This subject builds reading capacity while engaging students in key debates about literature today: what it means, how it works, and why it matters. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Journalism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0130 - Approaches to Text COMM 1005 - Aproaches to Text (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse literary texts to identify and interpret a range of key literary techniques.
Apply techniques in academic and critical writing, and respond to feedback to improve writing skills.
Summarise and evaluate critical arguments.
Work effectively with other students on team tasks.
Give effective oral presentations supported by digital-visual presentation tools.
Discuss ways in which different cultural and international contexts influence the reading and writing of Australian literary texts. Subject Content Students will
1) read and analyse a range of literary texts with the purpose of becoming both more resilient and more careful readers.
2) develop the ability to identify and interpret key literary devices.
3) read a range of Australian texts - prose, poetry and drama - including works by Indigenous Australian authors.
4) analyse ways in which different cultural contexts influence the reading and writing of Australian literary texts. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 750 words 35 N Individual N  Portfolio Tutorial participation (10%) plus 2 x multiple choice online quizzes (10%) 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact James Gourley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact James Gourley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact James Gourley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Communication and Media (COMM) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164)