Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 3001 Abstract Algebra Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200193 Coordinator Roozbeh Hazrat Opens in new window Description This subject develops algebraic thought to a high level. The abstract concepts involved in the main topics (group theory and number theory) have many applications in science and technology, and the subject includes an application to cryptography. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH 1006 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 3893 - Advanced Algebra LGYA 3789 - Algebra 3 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: recognise, describe and manipulate the basic structures in abstract algebra and number theory; namely, groups, rings and integral domains
explain the links between these structures and the symmetries of natural objects
apply concepts from group theory and number theory to real life situations, such as RSA cryptography
demonstrate proficiency in both spoken and written mathematical communications, particularly constructing and communicating proofs Subject Content 1. Number Theory - Divisibility, Euclid's algorithm - Prime numbers - Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic - Theorems of Fermat and Euler - Congruences - Modular arithmetic - Applications to Cryptography: the RSA cryptosystem
2. Ring Theory - Abstract rings and concrete examples - Integral domains and fields - Rings of polynomials - Polynomial congruences and quotients - Fundamental Theorem of Algebra
3. Group Theory - Abstract groups - Subgroups - Direct products - Isomorphism - Permutations, the Symmetric group - Rubik's cube - Cayley's Theorem - Group of units of a ring - Cosets, Lagrange's Theorem, Quotient groups
Number Theory - Divisibility, Euclid's algorithm - Prime numbers - Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic - Theorems of Fermat and Euler - Congruences - Modular arithmetic - Applications to Cryptography: the RSA cryptosystem
Ring Theory - Abstract rings and concrete examples - Integral domains and fields - Rings of polynomials - Polynomial congruences and quotients - Fundamental Theorem of Algebra
Group Theory - Abstract groups - Subgroups - Direct products - Isomorphism - Permutations, the Symmetric group - Rubik's cube - Cayley's Theorem - Group of units of a ring - Cosets, Lagrange's Theorem, Quotient groups Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual Y  Essay 10 hours 20 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam Not specified 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Mathematics (MATH)