Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 2006 Usable Security Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102757 Coordinator Farnaz Farid Opens in new window Description This subject will cover the human factors of security and privacy, as well as address emerging issues, challenges and regulations which underpin the need for usable security and privacy. After introducing the fundamental principles of security and privacy, these will be explored while considering how these principles shape the experience of users who are interacting with the designed product. Humans are an essential part of security and privacy, and they also inherently pose significant challenges. Students will be introduced to some of the fundamental security and privacy standards and regulations. They will learn about cognitive and perceptual approaches to usable security as well as how to create systems that are usable and trusted alongside fulfilling the requirements of remaining secure and private. Research topics such as how to design user studies to critically evaluate security, privacy, trust and usability interfaces will be addressed to provide students with an informed view on emerging best practices. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1025 AND
COMP 1005 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the principles of security, privacy and trust as they relate to key policies, standards and regulations.
Evaluate key experimental techniques used in perceptual and cognitive science relevant to usable security and privacy.
Explain approaches to social engineering, trust and organisational shift to cyber resilience, and location data permissions.
Evaluate modern authentication methods in security.
Critically analyse contemporary issues related to security and privacy.
Create educational and/or training materials aimed to enhance security and privacy. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 2 hours 50 N Individual N  Simulation 3 days 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 2 hours 30 N Individual N WSU Online Trimester 3 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Redesign an app. 800 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Authentication system ID management. 800 words 20 N Individual N  Professional Task Training material evaluation. 800 words 20 N Individual N  Report 1500-2000 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Farnaz Farid Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Farnaz Farid Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Cybersecurity Management, Testamur Major (T153) Other information Technology (INFO) User Experience, Major (0273) User Experience, Testamur Major (T154)