Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3069 Contemporary Irish Writing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102078 Coordinator Anne Jamison Opens in new window Description 'Contemporary Irish Writing' is a level 3 subject within the English and Creative Writing Majors/Minors. This subject examines a range of contemporary Irish writing across several different genres. It will provide an opportunity for students to read and study in detail a variety of texts that explore Irish consciousness in light of the social, cultural and political transformations of contemporary Irish society. Students will be asked to consider the ways in which these texts interrogate Irishness and identity, as well as issues of gender, sexuality, race and the environment in rural and urban Ireland. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Literature Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Explain a range of contemporary Irish texts in their intellectual, historical and critical contexts.
2. Discuss critical approaches to the study of a range of authors and the connections between them. 
3. Critically analyse texts and other critical readings. 
4. Appraise the formal and aesthetic dimensions of contemporary Irish literature. 
5. Recognise and formally analyse, in context, different genres of writing.
6. Organise, plan and deliver a critically-informed literary essay. Subject Content 1. Contemporary Irish writing.
2. Literary and cultural representations of gender, sexuality, race and the environment in contemporary Irish writing.
3. Irishness and Irish identity; personal and national self-definition in Ireland; Irish consciousness.
4. Contemporary social and political contexts within which recent Irish writing has been published.
5. Irish literary traditions and new directions in contemporary Irish writing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5-10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Essay 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Essay 1800 words 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts The subject's set texts may vary from year to year depending on availability but selections will always be made from a variety of contemporary Irish writing across multiple genres (poetry, fiction, drama). Structures that include subject Creative Writing, Major (0005) Creative Writing, Minor (0005) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Language and Literature (LANG) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)