Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3012 Creative TEAMS 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102432 Coordinator Kristen Marshall Opens in new window Description Creative TEAMS 2 will bring students together in interdisciplinary groups to work with Creative Industries practitioners on professional projects. Students will learn how to collaborate to develop original solutions with industry partners. Through research and planning, in relation to a set of relevant constraints: such as cultural, social, environmental, site and audience, students will develop a strategy that utilises the appropriate media, message and approach, to address the identified target audience, based on research findings. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 3011 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Creative Industries or associated double degrees. Successful completion of 120 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate the elements of an ill-structured problem as a basis for research
Use appropriate research methods in collaboration with others
Use design thinking to develop a solution to a real problem
Use critical thinking to reflect on research
Work in teams to develop novel solutions to real problems
Present findings professionally in a range of formats
Demonstrate advanced communication skills Subject Content Applied Design thinking
Applied Research skills
Applied Critical thinking
Collaborative problem solving
Advanced professional communication
Innovation and risk management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1,000 words 10 N Group Y  Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Group Y  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Group Y  Reflection 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kristen Marshall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (6009)