Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7020 Writing and Form Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102500 Coordinator Christopher Conti Opens in new window Description In Quarter 2, 2023 this subject replaced by CART 6001 - Writers at Work. Literature has always involved playing with language and shaping words into specific forms. The European avant-gardes of the 1910s, 20s and 30s swept aside traditional forms and valued kinds of playing that many cultural institutions and aesthetic authorities of the times regarded as childish. This unit will examine the interactions of play and form in experimental writing. Taking the manifesto as a means for outlining the scope and parameters of experimentation, it will explore a variety of calls-to-action regarding writing and form, and reactions to these in a range of literary forms including short fiction, poetry, and the essay. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7015 - Search (Translation)
CART 6001 - Writers at Work Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing or 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply theories of translation to the analysis of work from different cultures
Apply theories of translation to the analysis of different cultural forms
Theorise the role of creative expression in the projection of national identity
Reflect on the importance of translation to the Australian context
Use archival material (or material uncovered through research) to analyse how different cultural forms project national and cross-national identity
Examine the importance of searching or the quest to processes of cross-cultural communication. Subject Content Use and critically reflect on key elements of literary form studied on this subject.
Apply concepts of literary form to selected primary texts.
Examine the formal and narrative structures of select literary and critical texts.
Recognise the dynamic historical relationship between tradition and innovation.
Articulate the historical and cultural evolution of key literary forms, concepts and devices.
Demonstrate understanding of various interpretive approaches arising from literary criticism and theory. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 3000 words (or equivalent) creative work and 1000-word essay, OR 4000-word essay 100 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Other Creative Arts (CART)