Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3096 Indonesian 302 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102774 Coordinator Anna Nettheim Opens in new window Description This is an advanced (Level 3) subject in the Indonesian Specialisation. It focuses on the Indonesian language styles and vocabulary appropriate for academic purposes. Students will learn formal language through reading authentic materials, engaging in open discussion, and writing on topics related to contemporary Indonesian society and current issues in an academic manner. Students will develop their formal writing skills in Indonesian and will learn how to discuss academic subjects in a formal style. They will further develop their ability to translate Indonesian and English texts in a formal manner. They will develop skills that will assist them to interpret spoken and written Indonesian texts through exploring ways of building up the specific language required to gain a deeper understanding of any particular topic. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southeast Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3040 - Indonesian 302 Indonesian for Professional Purposes Assumed Knowledge Successful completion of Indonesian 202 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Discuss orally and in writing a number of contemporary issues affecting Indonesia;
Employ specific Indonesian vocabulary in relation to issues of interest, in order to understand Indonesian perspectives on those issues;
Translate Indonesian language materials effectively into English;
Understand how function words, new language terms and abbreviations and acronyms are used in Indonesian. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Summaries/Short answer: 5 x brief summaries of readings, 4 x short practice writing and translation tasks 2,000 words equivalent 20 N Individual   Essay: 2 x Indonesian short writing tasks 500 words each (20% each) 40 N Individual   Translation Task 350 words  20 N Individual   Presentation 15 minutes 20 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG)