Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 1006 Systems Analysis and Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300585 Coordinator Simi Kamini Bajaj Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the concepts of System Analysis and Design. The study of methodologies and techniques for problem recognition, requirement analysis, process modelling, solution design and data modelling are essential elements of this subject. The Systems Development Life Cycle model is employed as the prime approach to teach the subject, equipping students with the basic skills required for developing models for analysis, design, implementation and solving information systems problems. This subject introduces students to approaches of system development including structured, object oriented and agile. Students are exposed well to system design activities including UI, data, basic system architecture and system processing. The use of drawing tools will be discussed in practical sessions. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Systems Analysis and Design Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5776 Introduction to Analysis and Design INFS 1007 Systems Analysis and Design (WSTC) Assumed Knowledge Students should have knowledge of the fundamentals of information systems, computer systems, computer applications and information processing. Learning Outcomes Recognise the key role of a systems analyst and describe the generic roles and responsibilities of users, developers and managers within the context of business information systems.
Recall the fundamental building blocks and architecture of information systems.
Describe and apply the various phases of the System Development Life Cycle, including related documentation and appropriate project management approaches.
Analyse user and system requirements for the purposes of producing abstract models based on real business problems.
Explain the use and application of Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE) Tools in the creation of systems development artefacts.
Explain the issues around information systems governance, consumer and information security and professional ethics in regards to their impact on information systems design and operation. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Short answer descriptions + diagrams + workshop participation 30 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Simi Kamini Bajaj Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Simi Kamini Bajaj Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Simi Kamini Bajaj Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information Systems (3687) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Computer Science (COMP) Entertainment Computing, Major (0145) Health Informatics, Testamur Major (T007) Information Systems (INFS) Information Systems Analytics, Major (0166) Other information Technology (INFO) Secondary Teaching, Testamur Major (T119)