Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3021 Disability Rights, Policy and Governance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102849 Coordinator Amie Matthews Opens in new window Description Since the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, laws, policy and service supports concerning persons with disability have transformed. This has resulted in significant reforms in Australia and globally. Disability rights have now become central to addressing long standing inequalities and discrimination experienced by persons with disability. Disability rights now also govern social services, supports and programs. This subject examines these developments with the global ratification of disability rights and critically evaluates the ensuing policies and practices that frame the context within which professional practice and expertise occurs. Drawing upon in-depth case studies, students will critically examine and engage in key issues surrounding the translation and realisation of disability rights in governance of social service systems, policy and practices. School Social Sciences Discipline Care for the Disabled Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine international disability rights norms and their impact on national and state policy and governance.
Evaluate key international and national governance and policy issues for the realisation of disability rights in everyday life.
Apply critical analytical frameworks to disability rights to professional practice to foster learning and improvement.
Assess contemporary developments in disability policy impact the practices in professional service environments and practices. Subject Content Disability rights frameworks - historical through to most recent (international conventions, declarations, global governance institutions - WB, UN, ILO, OECD etc).
National and international responses to disability rights (legislation, policy and service provision).
In-depth case study examples from Australia, UK, EU and the Global South (Peru, South Africa, Sri Lanka) to illustrate legislative reforms with the ratification of disability rights.
The role of disability activists and advocates in driving social change for the realisation of the disability rights (boomerang activism, national activism, online activism). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 10 multiple choice questions 10 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,200 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 30 N Group Y  Case Study 800 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Amie Matthews Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Child and Community, Major (0045) Child and Community, Minor (0045) Disability Studies, Major (0252) Disability Studies, Minor (0252) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)