Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 1015 Understanding the Economic Context of Enterprises (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description The notion of business in practice has its foundations in economic theory. To connect the dots between what an enterprise does and why in the broader global context of economic forces, it is crucial to develop an understanding of ideas and their relationship to the enterprise’s goal. This subject will introduce the theoretical underpinning of economics, market forces and trending issues which ultimately shape enterprise behaviour in the global landscape. You will learn how the firm and its competitors adapt to each other’s actions. You will also learn nuances of government policy and how the enterprise can adapt to the shifting of goalposts along the way. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Explain fundamental economic concepts and relationships.
Interpret economic information that impacts enterprises.
Analyse the impacts of market structures on enterprise performance.
Evaluate the impact of economic trends on firms and the economy.
Explain the relationship between government policy and enterprises. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 500 words 20 N Individual N  Discourse Analysis 400 words 20 N Individual N  Discourse Analysis 900 words 30 N Individual N  Debate 5 minutes 30 N Group/Individual N Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Economics and Econometrics (ECON)