Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 1010 Engineering Materials (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700152 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce fundamentals of engineering materials.  The topics will include materials structure, properties, processing and applications, degradation of materials, sustainability and the selection of materials for various engineering applications. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students enrolled in 6033 Diploma in EngineeringBachelor of Engineering Studies or 7034 Diploma in Engineering or 7066 Diploma in Engineering Extended must pass MATH 0008 Mathematics 2 before enrolling in this unit Equivalent Subjects ENGR 1014 - Engineering and Design Concepts ENGR 1008 - Engineering Materials ENGR 1034 - Engineering and Design Concepts (UWSC) LGYB 0481 - Engineering and Design Concepts (UWSC Assoc Deg) ENGR 1009 - Engineering Materials (WSTC Assoc Deg) Restrictions Assumed Knowledge HSC mathematics (not General Mathematics), physics and chemistry. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe and identify the atomic structure, bonding, crystal structure and defects of materials.
Explain the various properties of materials (eg mechanical, thermal, electrical, optical, magnetic.
Identify and explain the mechanical failures, corrosion and degradation of materials and how to prevent them.
Select an appropriate material for a given application.
Apply sustainability principles in engineering practice. Subject Content 1. Atomic structure and interatomic bonding
2. Crystalline structure and defects in solids
3. Mechanical and physical properties
4. Metals, ceramics and glasses, polymers, composites and advanced materials
5. Materials selection
6. Materials and sustainability Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1000 words 10 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours x 6 30 N Group N  Case Study 2 hours 40 N Individual N  Applied Project 2 hours 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Engineering (7034) Diploma in Engineering Extended (7162) Diploma in Engineering Fast Track (7035) Diploma in Engineering/Bachelor of Engineering Studies (6033) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR) Process and Resources Eng. (PROC)