Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7052 MR Angiography and Cardiac Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401329 Coordinator James Nol Opens in new window Description The MR Angiography (MRA) and MR Cardiac (MRC) Imaging unit is a core unit in the course of Advanced Imaging (MRI). The subject provides students with in-depth knowledge of cardiac anatomy, the vascular system, and the relevant protocols to create MRI sequences for the anatomical regions of MRC and MRA in different clinical examinations. It is expected that students will develop the ability to recognise normal anatomy, identify common pathologies and be able to provide diagnostic solutions and/or develop new MRI algorithms for clinical problems. They will have the ability to either produce, request or recommend the proper sequence and the best method of operating the MRI equipment for the anatomical region in question. The subject is offered to students who completed the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Imaging (MRI) 4768, with a varied pathway for the clinical component relevant to their undergraduate discipline. Students will have 2 weeks of clinical training in an MRI clinical site. School Medicine Discipline Radiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7055 MR Neurology - Head Neck and Spinal Imaging
MEDI 7054 MR Musculoskeletal Imaging
MEDI 7053 MR Body and Pelvis Imaging Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4767 Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) and have successfully completed 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse sectional Magnetic Resonance –Cardiac (MRC) and Magnetic Resonance – Angiography (MRA) that can be produced on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) equipment.
Critique MRC and MRA scanning principles and their common applications for different clinical problems, and/or any proposed modification to suit individual patient’s clinical needs.
Create departmental MRC and MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) protocols.
Propose new MRC and MRA imaging algorithm and techniques to peers and health professionals.
Review MRA and MRC clinical cases to provide image Interpretation with high-level diagnostic confidence.
Critique clinical and operational pathways focusing on efficiency, productivity and provision of access to patients to MRA and MRC imaging.
Reflect on clinical and operational pathways based on the MR Angiography and Cardiac imaging Subject Content Sectional cardiovascular anatomy: Heart, valves, major coronary vessels, systemic vasculature of head and neck, body and peripheral vascular structures.
Common pathology
Selection of appropriate sequences and imaging protocol setup.
The use of contrast medium, dosage, type and timing of image acquisition.
Contrast and non-contrast Magnetic Resonance –Cardiac (MRC) and Magnetic Resonance – Angiography (MRA) techniques.
Advanced Cardiac Imaging: T1 & T2 Mapping, Late Gadolinium Enhancement (LGE), Perfusion
Clinical Training via 3 different pathways - Medical Officer – Image Interpretation and observation of practical work and Interaction with an MRI team. - Medical MRI Practitioner – Hands on Practical training and basic Image interpretation. - Allied Health – Interaction with the MRI Operations team, close observation of the operation and patient management and basic Image interpretation. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Note:  Due to covid restriction, the Working with Children Check (WWCC) and Student Undertaking has been temporarily been removed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Literature Review 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words each x 8 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact James Nol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Advanced Imaging (MRI) (4767) Medical Studies (MEDI)