Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 7032 Counselling Skills for the Allied Professions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102806 Coordinator Ireni Farag Opens in new window Description This subject introduces postgraduate students from allied professions to the major theoretical frameworks and foundational practices of counselling. An in-depth exploration of the embodied and situated experience of the trainee practitioner will be central to learning how to attend to and support others. Students will engage in an ongoing critical consideration of how discourses and practices of selfhood, social justice, power, colonisation, intersectionality, diversity and place shape the subjects of therapy and influence the therapeutic relationship. These intersubjective and scholarly enquiries will inform a scaffolded, intensive practice of microskills.  (Legacy code 102806) School Social Sciences Discipline Counselling Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects WELF 7009 - Foundations of Psychotherapy and Counselling 1 WELF 7004 - Counselling 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4595 - Master of Art Therapy or students must be enrolled in another postgraduate program in Social Sciences, such as Social and Community work, Health, Arts in Health Education or Bachelor of Research Studies. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Effectively and empathically practice beginning skills in counselling.
Integrate these counselling skills effectively into professional practice, from a critical social science perspective.
Recognise and constructively critique the major frameworks of counselling.
Respond appropriately in professional situations that require counselling skills.
Understand the similarities and differences between different professional roles and the possibilities and limits of their own role and expertise.
Establish a 'holding environment' with people in distress, in order to continue to offer therapeutic/ relational support or refer on. Subject Content Reflection on the development of the self as practitioner.
In-class practice of foundational counselling skills.
Reflexive analysis of the experience of counselling practice from the position of trainee practitioner, participant and observer, including close analysis of recordings of practice sessions.
Critical consideration of the major theoretical frameworks of counselling.
Exploration of the connections and tensions between the values, beliefs and practices of the student?fs chosen profession and the values, beliefs and practices of professional counselling. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 20 minute edited video recording plus 1,000 words (not including transcript) 40 Y Individual Y  Critical Review 1, 000 words  35 N Individual N  Presentation Ongoing in-class presentation of Log Book reflections 25 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ireni Farag Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Art Therapy (exit only) (4596) Human Welfare and Services (WELF) Master of Art Therapy (4595) Other Creative Arts (CART)