Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7036 Translation Technologies (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101750 Coordinator Anita Byrnes Opens in new window Description This subject aims to equip students with the theoretical and practical knowledge needed to effectively apply information and communication technologies to translation and other language related tasks. It focuses on translation memory and terminology management systems, and on the workflow involved in the handling of multilingual content. Emphasis is also put on uses of the Internet as a resource tool, and to the principles of controlled language for text to be processed by machine translation (MT). Tutorials will be conducted in a computer lab where students will familiarize themselves with leading computer-assisted translation (CAT) software applications. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine in some depth the fields of translation memory (TM) and terminology management, showing the skills required to compare applications and make informed judgments.
Describe the workings of one of the leading TM software packages and develop transferable troubleshooting strategies.
Explore the possibilities and limitations of machine translation (MT) by looking at the relevant literature and by analysing the outcome of some of the freely available engines on the internet.
Apply the principles of controlled language to the writing of source text to be processed by TM or MT.
Consolidate your expertise in internet mining, in particular for parallel corpora, terminological data and subject matter information.
Outline the workflows involved in multilingual content management, and explore the big-picture concepts of globalisation, internationalisation and localisation. Subject Content Overview of the principles of language engineering, and computer-assisted translation
Basic 'generalist' computing skills of particular relevance to translators, in particular those related to data digitalisation, exchange and protection
Desktop TM: components, workflow, and useful troubleshooting strategies
Server TM: open standards for database content exchange, interface with multilingual content management
Capabilities and limitations of MT (machine translation) engines and AI tools
The principles and practice of writing in controlled language for TM and MT
Internet mining for parallel corpus, terminology data and specific subject matter Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz equivalent to 3 hours 20 N Individual Y  Report 1,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Practical Exam 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Anita Byrnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Translation (1776) Graduate Diploma in Translation Studies (exit only) (1779) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777) Master of Translation and TESOL (1816)