Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3014 Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400999 Coordinator Daniel Thomson Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on client assessment and treatment using manual physiotherapy techniques. An emphasis is placed on diagnostic reasoning and evaluation, understanding the implications of pathology in a physiotherapy context, prioritising problems and integrating manual therapy with other physiotherapy treatments. This requires strong communication skills, ethical and professional behaviour and an appreciation of interprofessional care. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 3004 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy, 4667 Master of Physiotherapy, and 4668 Bachelor of Health Science (Honours)/Master of Physiotherapy programs. Students in programs 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy and 4668 Bachelor of Health Science (Honours)/Master of Physiotherapy are to complete prerequisite subject 400982 - Core Competencies in Physiotherapy Practice. Students in program 4667 Master of Physiotherapy are required to complete prerequisite subject 400987 Neurological Physiotherapy Practice. Students in this program are required to participate fully in practical classes. This involves disrobing to shorts and singlet or swim-suit equivalent in mixed gender classes. Students will practice hands-on physiotherapy examination and treatment techniques on both genders, and will personally experience these techniques which will be performed on them by other students and relevant academic staff. Assumed Knowledge Human anatomy, human physiology, and pathophysiology. Learning Outcomes Perform a safe and effective subjective and physical examination for a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Develop a problem list and list of differential diagnoses for a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Develop short and long-term goals for a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Demonstrate and explain the clinical reasoning in the use of appropriate physical examination procedures and manual therapy techniques for the client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder.
Monitor and evaluate the effects of manual therapy on a client with a disability, dysfunction or disorder.
Apply professionalism, ethical behaviour and effective communication skills.
Integrate manual therapy with exercise and other physiotherapy modalities in the management of a client with a musculoskeletal pathology, dysfunction or disorder. Subject Content Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)