Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5002 Aboriginal and Society Studies Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102874 Coordinator Cameron Thomson Opens in new window Description The subject will build on Aboriginal Studies Curriculum 1 and examine and model effective innovative classroom practice in teaching senior Aboriginal Studies and Society Studies in Stage 6. The subject will provide opportunities to engage with the inquiry pedagogy and social science thinking. The specifics of the relevant NSW Education Standards Authority Years stage 6 Syllabuses will be analysed and critiqued as will current Australian and NSW educational/curriculum policies and priorities. Emphasis will be placed on principles underlying sociological and Indigenous studies teaching to develop innovative lesson and subject planning, choose relevant sources, and how to create authentic assessment tasks and apply consistent feedback for student learning. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of senior inquiry project, and subject specific concepts will be presented. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714 or 1914 must have Aboriginal Studies or Society and Culture or Studies of Religion Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate understanding of NSW Education Standards Authority Stage 6 Aboriginal Studies, Society and Culture and Studies of Religion syllabuses and the effect upon syllabus implementation of current NSW and Australian educational policies and priorities.
Demonstrate an appreciation of Aboriginal identity and experiences, which are interconnected with Country, culture and community and apply teaching and learning pedagogies that promote inclusiveness and enables more respectful and reciprocal engagement with Aboriginal Peoples and communities. 
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that include literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of senior assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design and select innovative teaching resources that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching senior Aboriginal Studies, Society and Culture and Studies of Religion and include opportunities to develop students’ inquiry skills.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of sources in teaching lessons and programs.
Reflect and research professional learning to develop the discipline of Aboriginal Studies, Society and Culture and Studies of Religion teaching. Subject Content What is the nature of  Aboriginal Studies, Society and Culture and Studies of Religion in the senior years of secondary education? 
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
What are the key concepts related to Aboriginal peoples’ heritage and identity, including identity, Dreaming, spirituality, autonomy, cultural affirmation, appropriation, cultural ownership, language and cultural reclamation and maintenance?
What is the significance of the role of religion in society and, in particular, within Australian society?
How can we develop cultural literacy and a clear understanding of the interaction of persons, societies, cultures, environments and time?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in these subjects?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the subject? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2010) Aboriginal Studies Stage 6 Syllabus New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2009) Studies of Religion Stage 6 Syllabus. New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2013) Society and Culture Stage 6 Syllabus. Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Cameron Thomson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)