Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4018 Management and Administration in Early Childhood Settings Credit Points 10 Description Early childhood teachers work in complex and dynamic environments that are influenced by historical, social, cultural and political contexts. As advocates for quality children and family services that embrace social justice, inclusivity and equity, early childhood teachers must enact their ethical, legal and professional responsibilities. Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) services are similar to small businesses, requiring teachers to be knowledgeable about systems, strategies and processes to meet organisation goals and mandatory regulatory and licensing requirements. This subject builds students' foundational skills in strategic planning, policy development, staff management, conflict resolution and team building. Students will investigate effective management and administration dimensions, including human resources, marketing, financial accountability, governance and compliance processes. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 80 credit points to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Historical, social, cultural and political contexts influencing Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) service provision
Dimensions of quality ECEC services 
Legislation influencing ECEC services 
ECEC licensing and compliance 
Professional responsibilities
Organisational management 
Ethics and legal responsibilities
Theories of management and administration 
Administration and financial responsibilities
Marketing
Team building, conflict resolution, communication Subject Content Examine the historical, social, cultural and political contexts influencing early childhood education and care (ECEC) service provision.
Analyse the factors influencing quality service provision in ECEC services.
Appraise the ethical, legal, legislative and regulatory responsibilities of ECEC services and teachers.
Critique theories of management and their application to ECEC services.
Evaluate strategies to support the development of partnerships with families and communities. 
Determine the role of advocacy for managers and administrators in ECEC services.
Generate strategies for the development and maintenance of effective administration, team work, staff management and development in ECEC contexts. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 20 questions 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 1200 words 30 N Group N  Essay 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)