Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 4005 Theory and Practice of Psychological Assessment and Intervention Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101420 Coordinator Quincy Wong Opens in new window Description This subject has been designed to introduce students to psychological assessment by providing practical and theoretical input regarding the administration, scoring, and interpretation of frequently used standardised measures. The scientific and ethical underpinnings of psychological testing and assessment are introduced providing a general context for the employment of standardised psychological tests. Emphasis will then be placed on familiarisation with i) the processes that practitioners go through during a testing session and ii) current research on employing the standardised tests presented in this subject. Students will practise with testing data, reporting results in compliance with American Psychological Association (APA) conventions. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in programs 1796 Graduate Diploma of Psychology, 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours), 1860 Bachelor of Psychological Studies (Honours), 1905 Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours), 1504 Bachelor of Arts (Psychology) Honours, or 1500/1834 Bachelor of Psychology. Students enrolled in 1500/1834 Bachelor of Psychology or 1865 Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) must have successfully completed 240 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain commonly used psychological assessment instruments, their theoretical foundations and make basic interpretations of results.
Analyse and evaluate the underlying theoretical principles for the treatment of common mental disorders such as anxiety disorders and depression.
Apply cognitive and behavioural theory-based interventions for common mental health problems such as anxiety and depression.
Effectively communicate in writing the results of a psychological assessment using 'formal report structure'.
Effectively present the results of a psychological assessment in different contexts, including cross-disciplinary team settings. Subject Content Principles of assessment
Norm-referenced tests
Evaluating results
Communicating results
Clinical assessments
Assessment guided intervention
Symptom management
Cognitive interventions
Behavioural interventions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Quincy Wong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Quincy Wong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Quincy Wong Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours) (1905) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Diploma in Psychology (1796)