Academic Handbook Current Edition MECH 5001 Vertical Transportation Technology Credit Points 10 Coordinator Jamal Rizk Opens in new window Description As technology, architecture and building construction advance, vertical transportation systems must keep up to ensure best performance of systems in terms of safety, sustainability, passenger comfort and accessibility. This subject addresses the complexity of integrating systems to ensure best performance in specific contexts and for multiple stakeholders. Students work on projects and use computer-aided design (CAD) to develop design solutions that maximise performance while meeting requirements. In doing so, students further develop their technical and professional communication skills. Knowledge gained in this subject will benefit students aspiring to careers such as system, electrical and mechanical design of vertical transportation. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Learning Outcomes Use software tools to design vertical transportation systems.
Produce professional reports demonstrating vertical transportation industry standards and meeting project deadlines.
Justify solutions and recommendations for designs.
Communicate with groups and individuals with awareness of diversity and ethics. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal up to 5 pages 20 N Individual N  Essay 2000-3000 words (including diagrams) 30 N Individual N  Report up to 10 pages 50 N Group N Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Vertical Transportation (3798) Mechanical and Industrial Eng. (MECH)