Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 7016 Postgraduate Project A Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301384 Coordinator Jianhua Yang Opens in new window Description This is a project-based subject for the Master studies in Computers, Data and Mathematical Sciences. The purpose of this subject is to develop research skills and learn how to manage a research project. Students will engage in research investigation and practical work on a topic in a field of current research interest that is of value to the candidate's professional and intellectual development. Students are expected to actively pursue their interest in an individual research area and undertake self-studies under guidance of a project supervisor. Students will identify research topics in consultation with supervisors, carry out a literature review, define research objectives, establish research methodology, and prepare a research plan. Eventually each student is required to produce a research report with preliminary findings. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 7014 - Master Project 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program and have successfully completed 60 credit points of postgraduate subjects. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the relevant literature to identify potential research problems in the fields of ICT, DS, AI, and Mathematics.
Generate research questions and hypothesis based on the literature review and the changing landscape.
Justify the research proposal in relation to its significance in literature and its anticipated impact based on computational thinking, big-data thinking, and/or mathematical thinking.
Construct a plan and methodology to conduct research on an identified question/issue/problem.
Articulate research aims and findings in professional, formal and informal formats and contexts.
Apply self-management skills in planning and executing research within computing contexts.
Demonstrate research ethics in synthesising complex information from a range of sources and referencing appropriately. Subject Content There are no formal lecture sessions for this subject. The subject content covers typical activities in carrying out a research project. The subject content may also be recommended by the subject coordinator/project supervisor for a specific research project.
- Questioning: develop research question(s) or hypotheses. The end result of the students?f initial reading should be well-defined research question(s). The research question(s) will help the students to focus on the scope of their work.
- Problem identification: identify A Problem in A relevant field, such as information Communications and Technology, data science, Artificial Intelligence, information Governance, at A general or fundamental, technical or Regulatory or Philosophical level that needs investigation. It is important that The students examine The assumptions that underlies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Learning Contract 1 page S/U Y Individual Y  Proposal 1,500 - 2,500 words 35 N Individual Y  Report 5,000 - 7,500 words (includes figures, formulas, tables) 65 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jianhua Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jianhua Yang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Data Science (3735) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)