Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 1008 World Politics and International Relations (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to the key topics and debates that make up contemporary world politics and international relations. The subject will address the major historical developments, key issues and the various actors and institutions that make up world politics. Students will be introduced to some of the principal international relations theories that will provide them with the tools to investigate specific challenges confronting states, citizens, and non-state actors in our increasingly interconnected world. Issues of war and peace, state sovereignty, globalisation, global inequality, humanitarian intervention and human security will be addressed. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Political Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects POLI 1002 - Introduction to International Relations
POLI 1003 - Introduction to International Relations (WSTC)
POLI 1007 - World Politics and International Relations Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College to enrol in this subject.
Students enrolled in Extended Diploma College programs must have passed 40 credit points of the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject.
Students enrolled in Integrated Diploma/Bachelor programs must have passed or be enrolled in the preparatory subjects in these programs in order to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes 1. Describe the major developments in the history of world politics and international relations
2. Explain the main components of key international relations theories 
3. Identify and discuss the role of various actors in world politics
4. Examine current debates in world politics and international relations
5. Employ independent research skills
6. Demonstrate effective writing and analytical skills Subject Content 1. A history of international relations
2. The Cold War and post-Cold War world
3. International relations theory
4. Ethics in world politics
5. States, state sovereignty and globalisation
6. International organisations, international law, international regimes and global governance
7. Non-state actors
8. Nationalism
9. Security and insecurity in world politics including human security
10. Terrorist and extremist groups 
11. International political economy
12. Global inequality
13. Human rights and humanitarian intervention
14. Climate change and environmental issues
15. Refugees and migration
16. Global health
17. Gender and race in world politics Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 60 min each 30 N Individual N  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual N  Short Answer 1000 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Chantal Rozairo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7049) Diploma in Arts Extended - Arts (7161) Diploma in Arts Extended - Interpreting and Translation (7166) Diploma in Arts Extended - Pathway to Teaching Secondary (7145) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (6005) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (6021) Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism and Event Management (7186) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management (6047) Political Science and Policy (POLI)