Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7080 Waluwin: Health across the lifespan for Mob Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401502 Coordinator Alison Barnes Opens in new window Description In Spring 2023, this subject replaced by NURS 5005 - Waluwin: Health across the lifespan for Mob. Building on the broad concepts learnt in core subject 401454 - Indigenous Australian Health, Wellness and Culture or subject 401445 - Health, Culture and Wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples, this subject introduces the student to perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people's health looking across the lifespan.  Critical aspects of nursing care across the lifespan are examined focusing on the patients emotional, social, physical, and significantly, spiritual wellbeing in addition to family and the communities' response to the key alterations in health. Classroom learning will be supported by a field trip which allows students to experience a culturally immersive experience on Country facilitated by Aboriginal Elders. The field trip will also allow students to develop new skills for practice and develop a deeper appreciation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and culture. This subject will interest anyone with an interest in contemporary Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture and health care. School Nursing & Midwifery Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7070 OR
NURS 2039 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 - Bachelor of Nursing or 4780 - Bachelor of Nursing ? WSU Online, or 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply professional standards and the principles of evidence-based practice in planning for the holistic nursing care of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people, families, and communities.
Analyse underlying pathophysiology, clinical presentations, nursing assessments and interventions for alterations in health, across the life span.
Evaluate epidemiology and population health data in diagnostic thinking and develop strategies for community-wide approaches to prevention.
Critique historical and current policies and practices to determine how they impact the health and wellbeing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people today. Subject Content Maternal, prenatal, and newborn care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
How the early years provide a firm foundation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
The importance of Child and family health
Adolescents and the importance of strong cultural ties
Mental Health care ? age relevant concepts are embedded across the program
An examination of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parenting
Women?fs Business
Men?fs Business
Growing older
Aboriginal aged care
The impact of grief and trauma on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, families, and communities
Traditional health care in a contemporary setting
Nurses as change agents Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 1500 words 50 N Individual   Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Group   Reflection 1000 words 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)