Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 3031 Arranging Music Credit Points 10 Coordinator Lachlan Blackwood Opens in new window Description This subject extends concepts and skills necessary to arrange music in popular-commercial and orchestral contexts.  Lectures provide background on the use of instruments, harmony, timbre and texture, and tutorials provide practical exercises in preparation for the assignments. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 2015 OR PERF 2004 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Arrange a given melody for piano/short score.
Construct an arrangement for large ensemble of a pre-existing piano score.
Arrange a song for a medium sized ensemble.
Analyse the musical roles of instruments in a musical score, and be familiar with the ranges of the instruments.
Score idiomatic parts for a range of instruments.
Apply stylistic elements of a chosen genre to their own arrangements. Subject Content Skills in arranging for piano, and for medium and large ensembles 
Theoretical knowledge of harmony, chord voicing and musical textures 
Practical knowledge of instrument capabilities 
Practical knowledge of computer notation and musical scoring conventions Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 32 bars 40 N Individual N  Professional Task 88 bars 40 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Lachlan Blackwood Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music Studies, Major (0343) Performing Arts (PERF)