Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6004 Creative Writing Practice Credit Points 20 Coordinator Luke Carman Opens in new window Description This subject consolidates the student’s journey towards producing an extended creative work in Year 2 for the Masters Project. Students are guided in responding to writing exercises set by their tutor and are given feedback on their writing practice. They explore and experiment within different forms and genres, including genres of fiction (such as the short story, the novel, YA fiction and auto-fiction), non-fiction (including the personal essay, environmental writing, memoir and the art of criticism) and poetry (including experimental narrative). This subject progresses towards writing and workshopping a lengthier creative piece, which will form part of the student’s final assessment. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Creative Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7002 Applied Practice in Literary Studies and Creative Writing Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify narrative conventions in a range of texts.
 Write at a high level in a range of critical and creative forms.
 Analyse ways that writers use language and form to generate meaning.
 Generate a sustained creative work.
 Critically reflect on your own work and the work of others through analysis, revision and editing. Subject Content Writing in response to focused creative exercises set by the tutor
The opportunity to experiment within a range of creative writing genres
The opportunity to share creative work with an experienced tutor and fellow students
The practice of critical reflection on one’s own and others’ work 
Pathways to publishing – the opportunity to submit work to Australian journals and publishers Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 2 x 500 words (or equiv.) 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 2,000 words of creative writing (or equiv., for poetry) AND 1,000 words of literary analysis of a literary text that resonates with your creative writing OR b. 3,000 words of literary analysis of a literary text of your choice 60 N Individual N  Peer Review 250 words AND verbal feedback to peers 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Luke Carman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)