Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2005 Pathomechanics and Podiatric Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401181 Coordinator Sean Sadler Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to clinical/practical and theoretical foundations of human biomechanics of the foot and lower extremity, and the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of common foot and lower extremity pathologies. The subject consists of co-ordinated lectures and practical components to cover the theory and application of foot and lower extremity biomechanics and gait analysis, relevant physical examinations (bones, joints, soft tissues), diagnosing common foot and lower extremity conditions and related treatment options. School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 1022 AND
REHA 1003 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 2003 Incompatible Subjects REHA 3031 - Podiatric Techniques 1A Restrictions The subject is Podiatry specific and restricted only to students enrolled in programs 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). Assumed Knowledge Completion of all core subjects  to this semester/ year of study is assumed knowledge
Anatomy is particularly important for the successful completion of this subject.  An understanding of the structure and function of the lower extremity is needed as the focus of this subject is on pathologies of the foot and lower extremity and subsequent assessment, diagnosis and management. Learning Outcomes Discuss lower extremity biomechanics in relation to joint structure and function, structural and functional abnormalities, and muscle interaction in static and dynamic environments.
Apply relevant skills required for assessment of bones, joints, and soft tissues.
Develop and apply an understanding of the gait cycle including joint movement, muscle involvement, and structural linkage.
Determine how to assess the gait cycle through visual analysis and instrumented analysis.
Exhibit theoretical and practical knowledge of the aetiology, pathology, and clinical presentation of common pathologies of the foot and lower extremity.
Review and demonstrate the evidence-based approach for implementing management strategies for common foot and lower extremity pathologies.
Discuss and implement the theories of measuring health outcomes. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam up to 45 minutess 40 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 30 N Individual N  Professional Task Attendance and participation at scheduled practical sessions throughout semester S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sean Sadler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)