Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7006 Clinic Placement A Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101815 Coordinator Karen Moses Opens in new window Description This introductory placement subject comprises 180 hours of placement activity accrued one-day a week over 24 weeks and is designed to allow students to apply the theoretical knowledge they have gained in the following coursework subjects, Core Skills & Ethical Practice; Psychological Assessment; Psychopathology: Theory and Practice and Psychological Interventions 1. The aim of the subject is to establish and enhance, under close supervision, a range of clinical psychology assessment and intervention skills applied to real clients. Regular and systematic video-recording of trainee-client sessions and supervisor feedback guided by competency-based principles provide trainees with an excellent opportunity to acquire, consolidate and generalise a wide range of competencies important for clinical psychology practice. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 7014 AND
BEHV 7003 AND
BEHV 7029 AND
BEHV 7027 Co-requisite(s) BEHV 7005 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1812 - Master of Clinical Psychology. Assumed Knowledge Theoretical knowledge and skills of ethical professional practice, psychopathology, and psychological interventions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate core evidence-based clinical psychology assessment and formulation competencies at an advanced-beginner level for common psychological problems, including with culturally diverse and indigenous populations (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.8, 3.9, 4.2.1i, ii, iii, 4.2.2 I, ii, iii & 4.2.3iv).
Demonstrate core evidence-based clinical psychology intervention competencies at an advanced-beginner level for common psychological problems, including with culturally diverse / indigenous populations and with consideration to the context in which a client lives (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.3, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.2.2iv & 4.2.3 i, ii, iv).
Display therapist-client and supervisee-supervisor relationship competencies at an advanced-beginner level (APAC GA: 3.10, 3.11,3.12, 4.2.3iii).
Demonstrate professionalism, professional communication competencies, ethical judgment and ethical conduct in accordance with the Code of Conduct endorsed by the Psychology Board of Australia and meet all of the program inherent requirements. This includes professional engagement with and showing respect for the skills and contributions of other involved professionals (APAC GA: 3.3, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 4.2.3iii).
Demonstrate scientist-practitioner and reflective practitioner meta-competencies at the beginner level. This includes evaluating the effectiveness of own practice and making changes as required (APAC GA: 3.11, 3.14 & 3.15).
Comply with accreditation requirements concerning practicum, casework and supervision hours (APAC GA: 3.2-3.15, 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3). Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Simulation 1 hour S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance As outlined in the CYPRS S/U Y Individual Y  Log/Workbook Details specified in the Logbook Guidelines
 S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karen Moses Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Karen Moses Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812)