Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 7002 Tourism, Hospitality and Event Futures Credit Points 10 Coordinator Felicity Picken Opens in new window Description Tourism is a practice that both reflects and creates the changing, global world. International tourism is a key driver of the human experience of globalisation including the development of global citizenry, the opportunities and obligations that accompany this and the challenges, limitations and sometimes unintended effects of seemingly inconsequential travel choices. The tourism industry is concerned with the ongoing production of novel ways of experiencing the world and draws upon innovation in science and technology as well as imaginaries to accomplish this. Further, tourism is not insulated from practices that happen within the events and hospitality fields and must be taken into account when considering wholistic and strategic approaches. This subject will examine how these create and respond to futures in the realms of space, economy, culture and knowledge and how we can assess, evaluate and predict the effects of these. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 5002 - Frontiers in Sustainable Tourism Practice and Places Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Examine how tourism, hospitality and events create and respond to futures in the realms of space, economy and culture.
Synthesise advanced knowledge about specific futures, including the challenge or opportunity they present, key debates, approaches, and opinions.
Develop and effectively communicate a critical position on a specific futures topic.
Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of futures planning via relevant methods and case studies.
Assess the limits of forecasting and futures methods. Subject Content Tourism, the Anthropocene and disruption.
Tourism, hospitality and events futures.
Science and fiction in the creation of new imaginaries.
New spatial frontiers (space and oceans).
Vectors of future spaces and practices: architectures, robotics, ideas, disease and surveillance.
Tourism and events and the reconfiguration of the local.
Global citizenry and touristic practice.
Futures, uncertainty and contradictory outcomes.
Scenario planning and forecasting methods. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook 750 words 30 N Individual N  Reflection 750 words 30 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1938) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (exit only) (1937) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management), Minor (0360) Tourism (TOUR)