Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1001 Biodiversity Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300802 Coordinator Julie Old Opens in new window Description How many species walk, fly, swim or slither, crawl, hop, wriggle or just float, hitchhike or move so slowly that they appear not to move at all? No one knows and new species appear almost every day. This subject focuses on this spectacular diversity of living things and the process of evolution. Students explore and classify biodiversity and how organisms function, acquire and assimilate resources and co-ordinate growth and reproduction. Organisms interact with one another and their environment forming a complex set of interactions in ecosystems. It is these interactions that have driven evolution. Ultimately human survival depends on the sustainable use of this biodiversity and ecosystems. School Science Discipline Ecology and Evolution Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects BIOS 1006 - Biology A – The Diversity of Life BIOS 1002 - Biodiversity BIOS 1005 - Biology 2 BIOS 1003 - Biodiversity Incompatible Subjects LGYA 3841 - Foundation Biology 2 LGYB 5438 - Biological Sciences 12 LGYB 9635 - General Biology Assumed Knowledge Basic knowledge of biology and chemistry. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the characteristics of major biological groups and demonstrate how this information can be used to classify an unknown organism.
Explain and provide examples that demonstrate how evolution has given rise to biodiversity.
Describe and explain the role of cells, tissues and organs in the structure and function of organisms.
Explain how organisms acquire the resources necessary to function.
Describe the scientific method and demonstrate how it can be used to test explanations of observations by formulating testable hypotheses and designing experiments.
Conduct basic investigations of organisms using microscopy, experimentation and perform data analysis and interpret results.
Apply and transfer chemical principles to other contexts such as the origin of life, and how organisms acquire the necessary resources to sustain life.
Evaluate data and evidence from scientific literature. Subject Content The characteristics of living things and the nature of Biodiversity
Science as a way of knowing
Classification, taxonomy and species
Evolutionary theory
A survey of the major groups of living things from bacteria, viruses, protists and fungi to plants and animals
Evolutionary development of structure and function
The role of living organisms in ecosystems
The Biodiversity crisis
Basic light microscopy observing plants, animals and microbes
Sorting, organising and classifying organisms
Formulation of scientific hypothesises, designing experiments and data analysis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 50 minutes 20 N Individual N  Practical 4 x 3 hours 20 N Individual N  Quiz 5 min x 13 tutorials 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Christa Beckmann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Julie Old Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hybrid Subject Contact Julie Old Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Christa Beckmann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agriculture (AGRI) Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Biological Sciences (BIOS) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Business, Major (0104) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Education Studies - Primary Science Teaching Specialisation, Major (0189) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Global Climate Change, Major (0168) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Natural Science, Major (0213) Secondary Biology Education, Major (0348) Social Sciences, Major (0216) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Sustainable Futures, Minor (0035) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)