Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 5001 Sustainable Tourism and Heritage Credit Points 10 Coordinator Willem Coetzee Opens in new window Description This subject explores heritage and tourism through the lens of sustainability. It examines how heritage and tourism are impacted by sustainability challenges as well as how heritage and tourism can be undertaken in more sustainable ways. The subject contextualises how heritage and tourism have been used in social, economic and urban development and revitalisation strategies across the globe. It critically investigates how heritage and tourism are unfolding in the Global South, Indigenising and decolonising approaches and contemporary movements towards activism and justice (social, cultural, environmental, restorative). The subject also considers threats to these sectors’ sustainability, including impacts of the Anthropocene. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 7001 - Sustainable Tourism Hospitality and Events Learning Outcomes Evaluate key sustainability issues facing the heritage and tourism sectors.
Critically analyse real-world heritage and tourism problems using scholarly ideas about sustainability. 
Exercise reflexivity around how personal and professional practice can impact on sustainability.
Communicate critical scholarly concepts in accessible ways to promote sustainable heritage and tourism futures Subject Content Sustainability in the context of heritage and tourism.
The role of heritage and tourism in development and revitalisation strategies.
Perspectives from the Global South.
Indigenisation and decolonisation.
Justice and activism.
Fragility of heritage and tourism futures. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 500 words per student 30 N Group N  Portfolio 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Willem Coetzee Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Tourism Futures (exit only) (1922) Graduate Diploma in Sustainable Tourism Futures (exit only) (1921) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Sustainable Tourism Futures (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage), Minor (0307) Sustainable Tourism and Visitor Economies, Major (0320) Tourism (TOUR)