Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4007 Engineering Project 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300972 Coordinator Kejun Dong Opens in new window Description Throughout the semester, the focus will be on development of research and presentation skills of students enrolled in this subject. This will be achieved through employment of appropriate research skills on a capstone project which demonstrates student's professional level of executing, testing and documenting an engineering project and completion of a technical report. This subject is a continuation of 300971 Engineering Project 1. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 4006 Co-requisite(s) ENGR 3017 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in Bachelor of Engineering, Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) or Bachelor of Engineering Advanced (Honours) and must have successfully completed 200 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the theoretical knowledge gained during the course to develop practical and innovative engineering solutions;
Apply the project management principles to an engineering project;
Demonstrate the understanding of the importance of client/ end-user consultation and satisfaction and develop engineering communication abilities on good oral presentation and engineering report writing skills;
Implement ethical, social, economic and environmental responsibilities of an engineer;
Recognise the importance of time and financial management in the context of an engineering project;
Apply systems engineering methods for carrying-out systematic research;
Demonstrate an ability to work in a team. Subject Content 1. Development of integrated practical and innovative solutions to engineering problems.
2. Application of engineering project management skills.
3. Client/end-user consultation process and satisfaction assessment and development of good oral and written presentation skills appropriate to an engineer.
4. Evaluation of social, economic and environmental impacts of an engineering project.
5. Application of time and financial management skills and risk analysis as well.
6. Development of research skills. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Progress Report Revision 30-40 pages. 15 N Group   Oral Presentation 20 minutes each group, PowerPoint Slides, group work but marked individually 20 N Group   Final Report 50-70 pages. 65 Y Group Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)