Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1024 Applied Psychology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102706 Coordinator Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window Description Psychology is defined as the science of human behaviour and mental processes. Psychological theories aim to explain diverse aspects of everyday human experience and behaviour and are applied in diverse social, organisational and professional settings. In this subject, students explore key professional applications of psychological inquiry and how psychological research and theory can be used to analyse and applied to contemporary issues that influence individuals, groups and communities. Students are encouraged to evaluate the different ways psychological research is communicated. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Restrictions There are no enrolment restrictions for this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Appraise applications of theory and concepts in psychology and psychological research as reported in different contexts. 2. Apply psychological knowledge and research to real-world problems and social issues across culturally diverse populations. 3. Apply appropriate evidence about mental health and interventions to effectively communicate psychological knowledge. Subject Content Introduction to Applied Psychology 
Human-machine interaction 1: Virtual Reality
Human-machine interaction 2: Human-robot interaction 
Human- machine interaction 3: Artificial Intelligence 
Lifespan Psychology 1: Applications of infancy research into practice  
Lifespan Psychology 2:  Applications of child focused research into practice
Lifespan Psychology 3: Applications of adolescent focused research into practice 
Lifespan Psychology 4: Practical applications of research into older adults 
Psychological Wellbeing 1: Mental Health Literacy 
Psychological Wellbeing 2: Community initiatives to improve mental health
Psychological Wellbeing 3:  Suicide Prevention
Psychological Wellbeing 4:  Disordered Eating and Body Image
Summary and Review Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 800 words 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 800 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes/500 words 40 N Group/Individual N Prescribed Texts There are no prescribed texts. Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-2 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Alexia Cameron Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Tuki Attuquayefio Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour (1837) Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV)