Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1044 Professional Communication Credit Points 10 Coordinator Myra Gurney Opens in new window Description Understanding of the complexities of human communication is an important part of professional practice in all communication and creative industries. In this subject you will explore both theoretical and practical elements of professional communication and how these can be applied to understanding and solving real world communication problems. Subject content provides you with a range of communication contexts necessary for academic work and professional success. It also asks you to learn and practise a variety of professional writing styles and give class presentations with particular attention to how these vary according to the audience, context and medium. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication and Media Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 1026 COMM 1032 COMM 1033 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify the wide range of variables which impact human communication.
Demonstrate knowledge of the range of factors which affect both oral and written communication within professional contexts.
Describe how language operates to generate meaning.
Demonstrate appreciation of cultural impacts on communication.
Apply a range of critical perspectives   to mediated communication from a written, interpersonal and organisational perspective. 
Write effectively using a variety of professional formats especially emails, reports and persuasive texts.
Demonstrate effective oral presentations.
Undertake research including use of library catalogues, databases and the internet.
Apply communication skills through participation in workshops and the importance of consideration of a variety of personal views, perspectives and styles. Subject Content Importance of communication in personal and professional encounters: the notion of interpersonal competence, interpersonal communication, face to face interaction, communication involving reciprocal creation of meaning rather than linear message transmission.
Factors influencing human communication: perception, observation, inference, effects of personal experience, cultural experience and context.
Language as a factor in the social creation of meaning.
Non-verbal communication: proxemics, paralanguage, kinesics, interpreting non-verbal communication, Influence of culture on non-verbal communication, ambiguity of verbal and non-verbal messages.
Electronic/mediated communication and the factors which influence its use and impede its effectiveness: writing email, problems of lack of social presence, organisational problems arising from use of electronic media.
Principles of effective professional writing style: importance of identifying audience and purpose, elements of plain English style: importance of word choice, ordering, clarity, parallel construction, use of inclusive language, clear sentences, types of paragraphing 
Common genres of professional writing: email, business reports, reviews, newsletters.
Introduction to principles of visual communication including document layout and design which convey meaning.
Oral reports and presentations: how to prepare and present effectively, the importance of oral organisational strategies, developing appropriate and readable a/v, consideration of the differences between writing and speaking, the implications of non-verbal aspects to message effectiveness.
Principles of effective library research: using the catalogue, databases, internet, and applying appropriate academic referencing conventions. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 5-7 mins per presenter 15 N Group N  Portfolio 6 exs x 200 words each 30 N Individual N  Quiz 4 x quizzes 10 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Myra Gurney Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Myra Gurney Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Myra Gurney Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Myra Gurney Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Myra Gurney Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Bachelor of Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1736) Bachelor of Communication / Bachelor of International Studies (1932) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Business (1819) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of International Studies (1707) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Information Systems (3687) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Communication and Media (COMM) Digital Cultures, Major (0070) Digital Cultures, Minor (0070) Other information Technology (INFO) Personal Innovation, Minor (0284) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)