Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7001 Advanced Clinical Practice in Mental Health Nursing Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 401202 Coordinator Tracy Stanbrook Opens in new window Description This is a 20 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (10 credit points in each term).
Students are required to demonstrate the capacity to work autonomously in a mental health setting and be able to utilise supervision to support achievement of subject learning outcomes. Students undertake at least 300 hours supervised advanced clinical practice in assessment, treatment planning and provision of care for clients in a mental health setting. Clinical practice supervision and support is provided by a Primary Supervisor/Mentor/Assessor and a multidisciplinary clinical support network who will review the student's work in respect of working at an advanced level of clinical practice towards the attainment of a Nurse Practitioner qualification. A clinical assessment peer review panel will be convened at the end of the session to assess the student's knowledge, clinical decision-making, understanding of therapeutic interventions including pharmacological and non-pharmacological agents, as well as their capacity to meet all requirements of the Nurse Practitioner Standards for Practice. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mental Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 7006 AND
NURS 7005 AND
NURS 7041 Equivalent Subjects NURS 7046 Advanced Mental Health Nursing Clinical Practice 1 NURS 7047 Advanced Mental Health Nursing Clinical Practice 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4745 Master of Mental Health Nursing (Nurse Practitioner) program. It is a requirement that students are working in mental health services at an advanced practice level, must nominate a Primary Mentor and must nominate a clinical panel. Assumed Knowledge This is an advanced level clinical nursing subject. Students are expected to be working in situations where they can demonstrate this level of practice. They will have advanced skills in mental health nursing assessment, clinical decision-making and treatment planning; knowledge of mental disorders and illnesses; human response to mental illness; the development of relationships with people with mental illness and their families; and a range of treatments for mental illness. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically evaluate and demonstrate a capacity for clinical decision making throughout the therapeutic case management of clients with complex mental health problems
Critically evaluate and demonstrate ongoing assessment of health status and health risk and the use of associated pharmacological and non-pharmacological agents
Apply and critically evaluate the value of appropriate psychotherapeutic, psychoeducational and health promoting interventions
Provide and evaluate collaboration with clients' significant others
Evaluate the utilisation of the skills of other team members/health professionals/other agencies and assess educational imperatives
Critically discuss the importance of cultural issues in the treatment of mental health problems and disorders
Critically discuss the professional, legal and ethical parameters of relationships and treatment in mental health settings
Critically evaluate the value of teamwork and leadership
Critically evaluate documentation of client assessment and treatment programs
Utilise supervision and evaluate the value of the supervision process
Demonstrate the capacity for leadership in policy analysis Subject Content Advanced skill development related to autonomous, assessment, early intervention, treatment planning and care provision in mental health settings for clients across the lifespan presenting with a range of mental health problems and disorders in a variety of clinical and cultural contexts.
Clinical decision-making that reflects the capability to triage, problem-solve and mange time effectively.
Establishment and use of client outcome measurement to reflect individual difference.
Ethical and legal parameters of decision-making in mental health.
Identification and use of resources for consultation and referral (eg, CALD, women?fs services) including recourse to national and international research and information technology.
Clinical supervision relationships: identification of process, uti Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Case Study 3,000 words 60 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 300 hours minimum S/U Y Individual Y  Viva Voce 1-2 hours S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tracy Stanbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tracy Stanbrook Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Nurse Practitioner (Mental Health) (4745) Nursing (NURS)