Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7004 Advanced Highway Infrastructure Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301011 Coordinator Chin Leo Opens in new window Description This subject teaches pavement and ground engineering design as part of highway construction. Students will develop advanced knowledge and skills in designing pavement structures and ground improvement techniques dealing with soft and weak grounds related to the construction of highway pavements and embankments. Students will apply their knowledge and skills in accordance with Australian standards and practices.
 The knowledge and skills developed in this subject will provide students with opportunities in careers such as in ground engineering including those involving design, construction and maintenance of highway infrastructures. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Geotechnical Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Soil mechanics at undergraduate level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply principles of mechanics in pavement design.
Analyse soil principles for ground engineering and embankment design.
Evaluate soil properties and soil test data in geotechnical analysis and design.
Design highway infrastructures integrating relevant engineering principles using engineering software and Australian practices.
Collaborate with people from diverse backgrounds, both specialist and non-specialist, to achieve objectives of tasks.
Communicate analyses and recommendations in a formal report using appropriate technical and diagrammatic specifications. Subject Content Pavement Design Module:
1. Asphalt mix design
2. Flexible pavement design
3. Rigid pavement design
Highway Embankment and ground improvement Module:
1. Soft soil remediation
2. Ground improvement techniques
3. Earth fills and retaining structures Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation 2 hours (each week) 10 N Individual N  Report 25 pages 30 N Group Y  Report 15 pages 20 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour  (per quiz) 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Chin Leo Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)