Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 2014 Thinkers That Changed the World Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102571 Coordinator Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window Description This subject involves detailed study of a thinker whose work has had a significant influence on how we understand the world. The subject will focus on the thinker's important primary texts, and any other writings that aid an understanding of their contribution to philosophical tradition, ethics, politics, and culture in general. Students will study how the philosopher's ideas have been original, and influenced others to see the world and themselves in new ways. A different philosopher will be the focus of study each year. Thinkers that may be studied in depth include Plato, Aristotle, Hume, Locke, Spinoza, Kant, Kierkegaard, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Arendt, Foucault, Derrida and Girard. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PHIL 2006 - Key Philosophers PHIL 2005 - Case Studies in Philosophy Thinker Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the major philosophical arguments in the texts studied.
Discuss the philosophical reasoning employed
Outline the importance of the philosopher and texts to philosophical tradition
Evaluate the major achievements and any significant problems generated from the philosopher's contributions
Identify relevant cultural and social contexts of the philosopher and texts
Compose sound philosophical argument to undergraduate standard Subject Content Concentrated engagement with a Western Philosophical thinker
Close reading of philosophical texts by a single philosopher
Study of relevance of the philosopher to philosophical tradition, culture, society
Critical study of achievements and/or problems of their philosophical position
Situating the philosopher in relevant cultural and social contexts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Portfolio 1,000 words 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)