Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 2017 Western Political Philosophy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101912 Coordinator Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window Description The major social and political philosophy of the West, from the 5th century BC Greece till the 18th century will be examined. The development of ideas of citizenship, subjectivity, freedom, equality and the democratic state will be explored. The influence of Christianity will also be a major theme. Authors will include: Plato, Aristotle, Augustine, Aquinas, More, Hobbes, Locke, Vico, Rousseau. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0228 - The Western Philosophical Tradition PHIL 2013 - The Western Philosophical Tradition Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explain the major social and political theory of the West from 5th century BC Greece until the 18th century
critically analyse primary texts which exemplify this theoretical tradition
identify the theories that underpin the intellectual developments of the 19th and 20th centuries Subject Content Early Western political philosophy, encompassing ancient, Renaissance and early modern articulations from Plato through Machiavelli to Rousseau, focusing on social contract theory.
Late modern and contemporary political philosophy from Marx to the present day. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 55 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,500 words 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark G. E. Kelly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL) Philosophy, Major (0028) Philosophy, Minor (0028)