Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7079 Transition to Professional Nursing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401466 Coordinator Sara Shishehgar Opens in new window Description Transition to Professional Nursing explores the process of transition from student to registered health care professional. Students analyse their role as a registered nurse, reflecting on accountability, responsibility, therapeutic and professional relationships, as well as their capability for practice. This subject will build capacity in students to meet their professional responsibilities as capable practitioners in nursing and assist in demonstrating job readiness skills in preparation for new graduate employment opportunities. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline General Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) NURS 7075 Co-requisite(s) NURS 7078 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4785 - Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration). Assumed Knowledge An understanding of the professional responsibilities associated with nursing practice. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate job readiness skills in preparation for graduate employment
Appraise the role of nursing, the practice and profession
Critically analyse professional accountability for decisions, actions, behaviours, and responsibilities inherent in the role of nursing
Reflect on and synthesise the professional responsibilities of the registered nurse adhering to digital health legislation, policy, ethics, and professional conduct
Define and evaluate the need for resilience in nursing
Actively apply a lifelong learning approach for continuing professional development of self and others Subject Content 1. Transition to graduate practice ? theoretical perspectives
2. Novice to expert
    2.1 Transition to graduate practice: stages and experiences
   2.2 The role of the profession in influencing better health outcomes for people, and partnering with other health professionals to optimise decision making that supports person-centred care
3. Participation in collaborative practice and building professional relationships with health professionals within the scope of practice and personal and professional boundaries
   3.1 Regulatory Frameworks
   3.2 National Nursing and Midwifery Digital Health Capability Framework
4. Curriculum Framework
    4.1 National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards
    4.2 Aged Care Quality Standards
    4.3 Professional Development
    4.4 Formal requirements for registration
    4.5 Continuing professional development registration standards
    4.6 Professional and industrial bodies
    4.7 Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia
    4.8 Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation
    4.9 International Council of Nurses
   4.10 Australian College of Nursing
   4.11 NSW Nurses and Midwives Association
   4.12 Numerous Specialty Colleges
   4.13 Maintaining Currency
   4.14 Accessing health informatics and health technology
   4.15 Accessing, analysing and using the best available evidence Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview 15 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1500 words 40 N Individual Y  Reflection 500 words 30 N Individual Y  Participation All teaching weeks S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Sara Shishehgar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sara Shishehgar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Health Support (exit only) (4798) Graduate Diploma in Health Support (exit only) (4801) Master of Nursing Practice (Preregistration) (4785) Nursing (NURS)