Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2067 Being a Teacher (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mitchell Liddle Opens in new window Description Theory and the practice of teaching are explored in depth in this subject. This subject explores the necessary teaching and interpersonal skills required to build positive relationships with students and manage the classroom. Students will develop skills in planning, implementing and evaluating the students’ learning which are designed to meet school students’ curriculum needs.  It introduces students to a range of teaching strategies and assists with helping to identify when and why to use them. It explores how educational theories and practitioner research underpin and inform curriculum development and pedagogical practice. Integrated in the learning will be the use of information technologies. This subject will also facilitate students in developing a critical understanding of their individual progress towards satisfying the Australian Professional Standards for Teachers at the Graduate level.  The knowledge and skills developed in the other subjects of study in the program can be applied in this and the Professional Experience subjects. School Education Discipline Teacher Education, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 2004 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Analyse a range of teaching and classroom management strategies that promote student learning. 
Demonstrate knowledge of structured sequential lesson planning and evidence-based assessment. 
Evaluate a range of explicit teaching, modelling and scaffolding processes to support student learning.
Explain ways in which assessment driven teaching practices can be adapted for varied classrooms settings and for varied curriculum.
Apply critical thinking skills to solve teaching and learning challenges in contemporary education.
Apply educational research to inform pedagogies and assessment to maximise student outcomes. Subject Content Evidenced based theories and practices of effective teaching and pedagogy that promotes positive learning behaviours and environments.
Explicit pedagogies for learning
Effective rules and routines, or cues focused on creating learning habits that encourage students to respond to instructions. 
Creating and maintaining positive learning environments  
Wellbeing and resilience   
Lesson planning and curriculum aligned tasks that sequentially build the knowledge, understanding and skills of students. 
Use of formative and summative assessment to adjust instruction and support learning 
Development of scaffolds and rubrics in assessment. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 5 Minutes 15 N Individual N  Applied Project 800 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Presentation 4 mins per student 20 N Group N Prescribed Texts Readings will be provided via the program vUWS site Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196) Teacher Education (TEAC)