Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3022 Chinese 303: Twentieth-Century Chinese Literature Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100064 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to modern and contemporary Chinese literature in the Chinese language. It includes a brief overview of Twentieth-century Chinese literature, and exposes students to a variety of literary genres. Students are expected to work individually and in groups in order to analyse, evaluate and critique these works, whose social and cultural context is integral to understanding them. This process will not only increase students' understanding and appreciation of Twentieth-century Chinese literature, but  it will also develop their critical thinking skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Chinese 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes demonstrate basic knowledge of twentieth-century Chinese literature and prominent writers and poets of that period;
analyse and evaluate texts of various Chinese literary genres in their social and cultural context;
appreciate and interpret the use of language in literary aesthetics;
enhance their literary appreciation skills and their critical thinking skills;
utilize their critical understanding of Chinese literature and its tradition;
further develop the necessary skills to write literary criticism in Chinese. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 15-20 minutes including discussion 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1500-2000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)