Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 4030 Speech Pathology Professional Issues Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401431 Coordinator Subha Mohanasundaram Opens in new window Description This subject will address contemporary professional issues relevant to entry-level and future speech pathology practice, Students will integrate knowledge and skills from the year 3 and 4 academic and clinical subjects to generate evidence-based and ethically sound approaches to managing complex and contemporary professional issues. Students will critically reflect on their roles and responsibilities as future professional practitioners, leaders and advocates for the speech pathology profession. Students will engage in career planning and develop strategies to facilitate their transition to professional practice and fulfilling the roles and responsibilities expected of new graduate speech pathologists. School Health Sciences Discipline Speech Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 4028 Co-requisite(s) REHA 4029 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4763 Bachelor of Speech Pathology, 4764 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) or 4788 Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) Assumed Knowledge Students will be expected to have comprehensive knowledge and understanding of assessment and management of communication and mealtimes across the lifespan. Students will require the knowledge, clinical reasoning and reflection skills to respond to complex case and service delivery issues in speech pathology practice. Students will draw upon their diverse speech pathology practice experiences to complete learning activities and assessments for this subject. This subject focuses on preparation for recruitment and professional entry and it is assumed that students will have achieved professional competencies approaching entry-level before undertaking the subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically reflect on roles, responsibilities and skills required for leadership and advocacy in the speech pathology profession.
Engage with the Speech Pathology Australia (SPA) 2030 aspirational goals for the profession through critical application to the future management of individuals, families and communities.
Articulate an integrated professional identity by applying theoretical knowledge, professional experience, reasoning and reflection skills during speech pathology recruitment processes.
Appraise self-care needs and create practical strategies for professional resilience in future workplace settings.
Model professional, ethical and safe practice in all speech pathology contexts. Subject Content 1. Becoming a member of the speech pathology profession
2. Speech Pathology Australia (SPA) 2030 aspirational goals
3. Ethical leadership and advocacy
4. Recruitment processes and strategies
5. Working as a new graduate speech pathologist in diverse professional contexts
6. Management and business skills for speech pathologists
7. Self-care strategies
8. Seeking and maintaining professional networks
9. Clinical education and supervisory practices
10. Future directions and career pathways in the speech pathology profession Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minute presentation 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 2 pages 30 N Individual Y  Professional Task 3-4 pages 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Subha Mohanasundaram Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Speech Pathology (4763) Bachelor of Speech Pathology (Honours) (4788) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)