Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 2013 Systems Analysis and Design Credit Points 10 Description This subject introduces the concepts of System Analysis and Design. The study of methodologies and techniques for problem recognition, requirement analysis, business requirements modelling, solution design and data modelling are essential elements of this subject. The Systems Development Life Cycle model is employed as the prime approach to teach the subject, equipping students with the basic skills required for developing models for analysis, design, implementation and solving information systems problems. This subject introduces students to approaches of system development including structured, object oriented and agile. Students are exposed well to system design activities including UI, data, basic system architecture and system processing. The use of drawing tools will be discussed in practical sessions. This subject prepares students for an introductory business analyst role. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ACCT 1005 AND
COMP 1005 Equivalent Subjects 300131 AND
INFS 1007 AND
INFS 1006 Assumed Knowledge Students should have knowledge of the fundamentals of information systems, computer systems, computer applications and information processing. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Recognise the key role of a systems analyst and describe the generic roles and responsibilities of users, developers and managers within the context of business information systems.
Identify the fundamental building blocks and architecture of information systems.
Apply the various phases of the System Development Life Cycle, including related documentation and appropriate development approaches and methodologies.
Analyse business and system requirements and design a solution for the purposes of producing abstract models based on real business problems.
Explain the use and application of drawing tools in the creation of systems analysis and design artefacts.
Explain the issues around information systems governance, consumer and information security and professional ethics, including their impact on the perspectives and rights of Indigenous communities. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Short answer descriptions + diagrams + workshop participation 30 N Individual N  Quiz 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Information Systems (INFS)