Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7009 Philosophy, History and Interpretation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102620 Coordinator Jennifer Mensch Opens in new window Description The focus of this subject will be a topic, or range of topics, particularly relevant in philosophy, which will be analysed both in their historical context and through subsequent interpretations by other philosophers or philosophical traditions. The subject will combine the hermeneutic interpretation of texts together with conceptual and argumentative analysis. Close attention will be paid to the language and systematic content of the philosophical issues examined. Moreover, students will be guided in factoring in the historical situation both for the philosopher(s) examined and for us as interpreters. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advanced and integrated knowledge of distinct varieties of Continental philosophy in their respective historical context.
Demonstrate depth of reading and understanding of philosophical topics and their interpretation.
Synthesize changing theories, methods, and concepts in philosophy through the interpretative activities of other thinkers through time.
Write at a high level in a range of critical and philosophical idioms. Subject Content Unit content will include key issues, sets of text, and thinkers that are relevant to the MA in Continental Philosophy. In particular, this subject will be devoted to deepening the students?f knowledge of the relation between philosophy, its historical context, and the interpretative/hermeneutic activity.
More specifically, subject content will draw on the following topics:
Philosophy and its historical context
The interpretative nature of philosophy
The transformation of philosophical claims over history
The nature and development of the notion of interpretation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio: 4 short responses to questions 2,000 words in total (500 words each) 35 N Individual   Essay: 1 long research essay 4,000 words 65 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)