Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3060 Legal Interpreting (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100196 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description Legal interpreting is a highly complex process that requires specialised training in interpreting techniques, litigation tactics, legal language and the legal system. This subject is a compulsory subject for students in the BA (Interpreting and Translation) course. It can also be offered to practising interpreters who wish to improve and perfect their knowledge and skills in legal interpreting. It aims to provide students with the theoretical background and the opportunity to develop the interpreting skills necessary to operate at the NAATI professional level as a court interpreter. Lectures are held in English for students of all languages. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin and Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LANG 1017 Assumed Knowledge Bilingual competence in English and one of the languages offered by the School for the interpreting and translation programs. Learning Outcomes interpret accurately in-person in court hearing situations in the consecutive mode
interpret accurately over the phone or via video-link in legal settings
interpret simultaneously in a court setting in the whispering mode
interpret in a triangular situation in a legal conference in the dialogue mode
demonstrate essential knowledge of the Australian legal system and awareness of cross cultural and cross linguistic differences and their relevance in the context of court interpreting
use essential legal vocabulary
sight translate court documents
demonstrate understanding of the complexity of the language of the courtroom, including question tactics and the importance of testimony style. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5-10 minutes, as negotiated with tutor 20 N Individual N  Quiz 15 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Viva Voce 30 minutes each 60 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)