Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 2010 Lifespan Development and the Human Services Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400505 Coordinator Samia Michail Opens in new window Description This subject takes a 'lifespan perspective' to studying human development, covering related concepts, theories, methods and debates, and develops an understanding of bio-psycho-social dimensions across the lifespan, underpinned by a sensitivity to cultural and social differences in development.  There is an emphasis on relating lifespan issues to current human services. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BEHV 1021 Equivalent Subjects LGYB 6026 - Lifespan Development in the Human Services Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1666 Bachelor of Social Work, 4598 Bachelor of Social Work, 4522 Bachelor of Community Welfare or 4523 Bachelor of Community Welfare (Family and Community). Successful completion of 60 credit points including the pre-requisite subject above. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Summarise the key concepts, theories and methods related to the 'Lifespan Perspective' of studying human development.
Explain how cultural and social differences influence lifespan development.
Relate concepts of lifespan development, including cultural and social differences, to current human services.
Recognise bio-psycho-social dimensions across the lifespan. Subject Content Foundational concepts related to the lifespan perspective and approaches to understanding human development, theories, debates and methods.
Cultural and social differences in lifespan development, including indigenous Australians and gender.
Lifespan development related to human services.
Heredity, prenatal development and birth
Bio-psycho-social development related to: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 1,200 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 3 minute video file 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 15mins per quizz 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Samia Michail Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Samia Michail Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Samia Michail Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)