Academic Handbook Current Edition TOUR 1002 Tourism and Global Trends Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101901 Coordinator Julie Wen Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject replaced by TOUR 1003 - Global Trends in Tourism and Events.
This subject introduces students to the foundational knowledge and skills required for tourism study at UWS and professional practice in a range of tourism related careers. This subject provides students with opportunities to familiarise themselves with the core concepts and basic theory of tourism management studies. It aims to equip students with an understanding of sustainable tourism, the tourism system, and mega trends of tourism. It covers the global complexity of the tourism industry; of the social, environmental, and political realities; and the role of governments - federal, state and local together with private enterprise in the development of tourism experience, industry practice, and destinations. School Social Sciences Discipline Tourism Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects TOUR 1001 - Tourism Sustainability and Global Trends Incompatible Subjects LGYA 1263 - Sustainable Tourism in Practice LGYA 1262 - Managing Tourism Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the history and contemporary issues related to tourism .
Analyse the tourism system, the complexities of the tourism phenomenon and key tourism concepts.
Assess the economic, sociocultural, and environmental impacts of tourism and their management.
Identify the functions and strategies of selected organizations/agencies responsible for promoting and managing tourism.
Identify and analyse the changing patterns and trends in global tourism over a given period of time using available data. Subject Content 1. History and core concepts of leisure, recreation, tourism and sustainability.
2. The tourism system
3. The tourist experience
4. Tourism industry and products
5. Tourism markets and marketing
6. Economic dimensions of tourism
7. Valuation of resources
8. Tourism Satellite Account
9. Forecasting
10. Characteristics of the global industry
11. Destinations and their development: case studies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Multiple Choice Three during the semester 30 Y Individual Y  Report 1,500 words per student 30 Y Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 2 hours, approximately 750 words 40 Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Tourism Management (1664) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Heritage and Tourism, Major (0012) Tourism (TOUR) Tourism, Major (0161)