Academic Handbook Current Edition SPRT 3023 Advanced HPE and Sport Leadership Credit Points 10 Coordinator Rhiannon White Opens in new window Description This subject offers students with a learning experience based on the principles of physical education and sports coaching in variety of sports and recreational activities. It builds upon physical activity instruction and teaching games for understanding (game sense) introduced in earlier subjects. You will have the opportunity to plan, implement, and reflect on your own teaching practice during tutorials and within community sport contexts. You will learn to see things from multiple perspectives based on content delivered by university staff, peers, and external sport organisations. The subject incorporates experience in meaningful situations that will help prepare you for work in a dynamic field of education. School Health Sciences Discipline Sport and Recreation Activities Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 1020 AND
SPRT 2013 Equivalent Subjects HLTH 3008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4741 - Bachelor of Sport Development, 4791 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary), 4792 Bachelor of Health and Physical Education or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education), 4656 B Health Science. Assumed Knowledge Completion of 400798: Games for Diverse Groups for knowledge about introduction physical education pedagogy as well as completing two (2) introductory coaching certificates. Learning Outcomes Examine various principles of effective coaching, teaching and leadership within sport and recreation settings.
Assess the experiences and needs of individuals, groups and communities within a range of different physical activity, sport and recreation contexts.
Design and implement practical activities to suit the experiences and needs of individuals, groups and communities within a range of physical activity, sport and recreation contexts.
Evaluate the successes and challenges of teaching activities using self-reflection and feedback to identify improvements and action plans for future learning opportunities.
Demonstrate teaching and coaching proficiency in various theoretical and practical contexts. Subject Content Teaching people with a range of interests in recreational activities and competitive sports
Planning, implementing and evaluating teaching sessions in university, school, and community contexts
Employing reflective practice as a learning process to inform effective design and delivery of sport and recreation activities
Factors that influence lifelong participation in sport and recreation activities
Participating in a community of practice where learning takes place in a collaborative, meaningful and personal environment
Principles for gaining a sport coaching accreditation Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must have completed a Child Protection Course and Working with Children Check. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied project - Lesson planning for sport activities 3 x 50 minute lesson plans 30 N Group/Individual N  Reflection report on individual and peer teaching experiences 1x1500 words / 10 - 15 minute video (interchangeable) 40 N Individual N  Reflection Up to 300 words and / or quiz submission 30 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (4792) Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (4791) Secondary PDHPE Education, Major (0356) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)