Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2062 Teachers as Change Makers Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102796 Coordinator Annette Sartor Opens in new window Description Through engaged learning, Teachers as Change Makers builds professional teaching skills by enhancing pre-service teachers' understandings of the clientele with whom they will be professionally involved as teachers. This subject includes a practical component requiring a minimum of 25 hours of engaged learning in primary schools that provide support to children from a range of diverse backgrounds and experiences. Through practical experience such as learning support programs, the subject explores the criticality of ethical understandings and teaching practices that may influence the educational outcomes of children. In particular, this subject focuses on promoting the importance of reciprocal and reflexive teaching approaches for providing inclusive settings that make a difference to children’s educational experiences and provides a space to critically explore how teaching practices can empower students and communities. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must have completed 40 credit points to enrol in this subject (this restriction excludes students enrolled in 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary)). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Using the sociological theory of reflexivity, outline existing personal perceptions of the role of a teacher. 
Analyse issues faced by children with diverse needs and from diverse backgrounds, and how issues impact on educational achievement (APST 1.3, 1.4, 1.6).
Undertake an engaged learning placement through facilitating programs (e.g. reading, numeracy, special needs), specifically aimed at improving outcomes for children with diverse learning needs. 
Using a flipped classroom approach, apply Freire’s theory of praxis to examine the responsibilities and practices of teachers who work with children with diverse needs and from diverse backgrounds (APST 1.3, 1.5, 1.6, 4.1, 4.4). 
Explain how ethical and professional decisions, understandings and practices lead to positive educational outcomes for children. (APST 1.3, 1.5, 1.6, 4.1, 4.4, 7.1). 
Critically reflect on the effectiveness of teaching practices, for empowering learners with diverse needs and from diverse backgrounds. (APST 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 4.1, 4.4). 
 Explore the changing roles of teachers with reference to providing inclusive settings, working with parents and communities, and preparing children for the changing landscape of work. (APST 7.3). 
Using theory, examine how teachers can act as agents of change.
Apply professional approaches during placement in school settings including child protection obligations. (APSTs 7.2, 7.4). Subject Content Responsibilities and practices in the profession of teaching
The changing roles of teachers in the social and cultural institution of education
Knowledge integration through sociological theory, engaged and work integrated learning and its application for ‘work’ in school settings
Knowledge and skills for working with diverse children
Reflective and reflexive practice
Ethical and professional responsibilities for working with diverse groups of children Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites 1. Students are required to complete the two components of the Working with Children Check (WWCC) process leading to (a) the issuance of a clearance number under the category of either volunteer or paid and (b) verification of the clearance number with the NSW Department of Education. a) Students will need to:
 i. Access the Commission for Children and Young People website and complete an online application form to generate an application number.
 ii.  Present an application number and identification to a Service NSW office who will issue a Working with Children Check number via mail or email.
 iii. Submit the letter with a valid Working With Children Check number via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record.
WesternNow Student Portal link
b) Students will need to:
 i.  Access the NSW Department of Education WWCC Verification declaration form  https://online.education.nsw.gov.au/jecpc/crc/wwcc.jsf
 ii. Carefully read the information about Identity Documents and obtain a copy of the relevant ID documents.
 iii. Complete and submit the verification declaration form.
iv. Once your WWCC verification is complete you will receive an email reply from the DoE Probity Unit confirming your WWCC number has been verified.
v.  Submit the verification confirmation email via WesternNow Student Portal. The document is trimmed and recorded as a Special Requirement on your academic record. 2. Students must complete the two components of the NSW Department of Education’s Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT)
a) Students will need to:
i. Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii. Complete the online Child Protection Awareness Training: Induction
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv. Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
b) Students will need to:
i.  Access the NSW Department of Education’s MyPL website https://mypl.education.nsw.gov.au/
ii.  Complete the Child Protection Awareness Training (CPAT): Annual Update for the calendar year
iii.  Save certificate of completion
iv.  Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal
Both certificates will be recorded on your student record as Special Requirements with the end date for the Annual CPAT recorded. The CPAT: Annual Update will need to be renewed and submitted on an annual basis.
Students who have not completed both components of the Child Protection Awareness Training will need to withdraw from the subject. 3. Students must complete the ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training  and submit their certificate to Submit certificate via WesternNow Student Portal. 4. Students must meet the Inherent Requirements for the Master of Teaching (Primary). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 600 words S/U N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 50 N Individual Y  Reflection 1,200 words 50 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 25 hours S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Annette Sartor Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1877) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (1929) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Bachelor of Educational Studies (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education) (exit only) (1861) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Early Childhood/Primary) (6048) Diploma in Education (Primary) (exit only) (1878) Diploma in Educational Studies (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (exit only) (1718) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Teacher Education (TEAC)