Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2010 Engineering Project (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700110 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description In this unit, students will use project management tools, techniques and practices to plan and control a project that achieves stated requirements on time and within budget.  Students will plan a project including the creation of a statement of work, a work breakdown structure and an appropriate set of supporting work packages. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 2018 OR
ENGR 2031 Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering. Student must have completed at least 100 Credit Points in their Associate Degree in Engineering Program prior to enrolling in the 700110 Engineering Project (WSTC AssocD). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the theoretical knowledge gained during the subject to develop practical and innovative engineering solutions.
Apply the project management principles to an engineering project.
Recognise the importance of client/end-user consultation and satisfaction and good oral presentation and engineering report writing skills.
Familiarise themselves with ethical, social, economical and environmental responsibilities of an engineer.
Use time and cost management tools and knowledge to plan and control the engineering project.
Demonstrate the methods/practices of carrying out systematic engineering project management. Subject Content This unit is designed to provide engineering students with the opportunity to create and manage an engineering project with the integration and application of the knowledge and skills of engineering project management. The detailed contents are described as follows:
1. Project brief, assignment, tasks and assessment brief
2. Achieving the primary project objectives: Time, cost, quality and safety
3. Defining the project scope and Planning project activities/tasks
4. Application of project scheduling skills
5. Issues in scheduling and use of MS project
6. Application of financial management skills
7. Application of resources allocation skills
8. Application of project monitoring and control skills
9. Updating master schedule
10. Project quality management planning
11. Project risk management planning
12. Project safety, health and environment management planning
13. Post project reviews Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report Min 3,000 words / group (excluding appendices and annexures) 30 N Group/Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Presentation Usually 20 minutes are to be assigned per group with 5 minutes for Q&A at the end 15 N Group N  Report Min 5,000 words (excluding appendices and annexures) Individual contributions to be specified in the report 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Hybrid Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Engineering (7022) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)