Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7045 Diabetes in the Hospital Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401289 Coordinator Therese Fletcher Opens in new window Description People with diabetes are more likely to be admitted to hospital, experience more complications, have longer length of stay and have higher mortality rates compare to people without diabetes. This subject will provide students with the skills and knowledge to optimise metabolic health in the complex care of i- patients with diabetes. The subject will examine the prevalence and economic costs of people with diabetes in hospitals and review current pathological hypotheses on why poor glycaemic control is associated with poorer inpatient health outcomes. Best practice management in inpatient diabetes care, treatment targets and medication intensification for patient in critical, noncritical, peri-operative,  end of life will be analysed  Clinical governance in providing safe quality diabetes care and organisation response will be included in this subject. An online inter-professional case based approached to learning will be the mode of delivery. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the a postgraduate program with evidence of 12 month clinically relevant practice or substantial experience in working with people with diabetes. Assumed Knowledge Advanced knowledge of diabetes pathophysiology and diabetes clinical care. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the prevalence and economic burden of patients with hyperglycaemia and diabetes in hospital.
Review current pathological hypotheses pertaining to the association of poor glycaemic control with poor inpatient health outcomes.
Justify the optimisation of blood glucose levels and the prevention and treatment of hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia in the care of inpatients with diabetes.
Apply evidence based diabetes inpatient management, treatment targets, nutrition and medication intensification in caring for inpatients with diabetes in critical, noncritical, peri-operative, end of life clinical contexts.
Evaluate the role of clinical governance and hospital wide systems in supporting safe and effective diabetes care. Subject Content Diabetes inpatient prevalence and health outcomes
Inpatient glycaemic targets
Hyperglycaemia and hyperglycaemia emergencies
Insulin pharmacology and best practice in inpatient prescribing and titrating
Hypoglycaemia and appropriate management
Inpatient diabetes education
Diabetes in patient care for critical, perioperative, end of life and mental health patients
Clinical governance, quality and safety Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10-15 minutes 20 N Individual N  Essay 2,200 words 40 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Therese Fletcher Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4762) Medical Studies (MEDI)