Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2056 Teaching Art in the Early Years Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102671 Coordinator Joanne Frost Opens in new window Description This subject continues students’ exploration of the creative arts and focuses on pedagogies to support the creative child. The role of the teacher and environment as art educators will be explored in detail, specifically the role of the pedagogical leader in facilitating meaningful, sustained and inclusive art experiences for the young child. Students will explore the relevance of the arts in the development of children’s play and will engage with appropriate information and communication technologies for learning in the arts. Students will also draw from theory and research literature to critically analyse traditional and contemporary approaches to teaching the arts and the role of the teacher in supporting children’s ability to make meaning from and express their social and cultural worlds. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1926 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) and have completed 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes Explain the role of the creative arts in the play, development and learning of birth – 5 year olds.  
Advocate for learning in the arts in the early childhood curriculum.
Apply art elements and concepts as they relate to cultural diversity, in particular Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the cultures of the Asia region in the development of creative arts experiences. 
Apply pedagogies and resources that encourage divergent thinking, creative expression and meaning making that assist children to communicate their ideas through creative arts experiences. 
Use theoretical knowledge of drama, music, dance, visual arts and media arts in the development of creative arts experiences. 
Develop sequential learning experiences in the creative arts that are consistent with the Early Years Learning framework. Subject Content The Arts: 

Key elements of drama, music, visual arts, dance and media arts 
Creative arts pedagogies for children birth to 5 years 
The creative arts and the Early Years Learning Framework 


The Child: 

The physical, social, creative and intellectual capabilities of birth to 5 year olds as they relate to learning and development in the creative arts  
The role of the creative arts in contemporary childhoods, including those of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander peoples and those from the Asian region.
Technology and contemporary arts in early childhoods
The arts as a social and cultural lens for meaning making and collaboration and agency 


The Teacher: 

Exploration of arts pedagogies, including multiple intelligences, for teaching in the creative arts 
The role of the arts educator, contemporary and traditional approaches and arts pedagogies
Creative arts curriculum and Intentional teaching strategies
Environments and resources that support accessibility, time frames and collaborative decision making in art making processes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 800 words 25 N Individual Y  Reflection 1000 words 35 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Joanne Frost Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Teacher Education (TEAC)