Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 6002 Music Therapy Theory & Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Coordinator Allison Fuller Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on the delivery of music therapy to infants, children and adolescents with various approaches and settings being explored across the semester. There is an emphasis on the eclectic music therapy approach and how current psychotherapy approaches, practice approaches and music therapy approaches can be successfully combined to meet the therapeutic needs of the music therapy participant/s. An introduction to music therapy research, with particular attention to writing a literature review, is included. The Australian Music Therapy Association (AMTA) standards of practice are overviewed and explored through active group work. In addition, musical analysis, teamwork approaches, creative arts therapy models and group work in music therapy are also explored. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 6001 - Music Therapy Foundations Approaches
OR
PERF 7003 - Music Therapy Method Equivalent Subjects PERF 7007 - Music Therapy Theory and Practice 1 Restrictions This subject is only available to students enrolled in program 1650 Master of Creative Music Therapy. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Create professional online presentations, use critical thinking skills, and engage in active learning methods within the music therapy learning context
Identify current therapy orientations and apply practice approaches and music therapy approaches through the development of an eclectic/integrated music therapy approach
Identify key considerations and methods in the delivery of music therapy to infants, children, and adolescents across a range of settings
Conduct a focused literature review on one major music therapy approach/orientation, with an application to either infants, children, or adolescents
Identify and describe the Australian Music Therapy Association (AMTA) standards of practice and explain the purpose of the AMTA code of ethics
Describe and explain the areas of creative arts therapy, teamwork models and group work models in relation to music therapy with infants, children, and adolescents Subject Content Music Therapy Approaches and Orientations: The eclectic music therapy approach and the integration of current therapeutic orientations and practice approaches.
Music Therapy Population/Settings: Focus on music therapy with infants, children and adolescents across a range of settings including education, health and community.
Music Therapy Literature Review: Introduction to music therapy research methods with a focus on writing a music therapy literature review.
AMTA Standards of Practice: Music therapy referral, assessment, planning, implementation, evaluation, documentation and termination with a focus on infants, children and adolescents.
Musical Analysis: Principles, elements, techniques and the application of musical analysis to music therapy practice.
Music & The Brain: Introduction to music psychology and overview of how music affects the brain.
Music Therapy Approaches and Orientations: Receptive methods of music therapy, with focus on guided imagery and music. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 3,000 words in total across 10 short answers 30 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes and 500 words 30 N Individual N  Literature Review 3,000 words 40 N Individual N  Participation Attendance at 100% of lectorials is expected, with 11 being mandatory S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Allison Fuller Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Master of Creative Music Therapy (1650) Performing Arts (PERF)