Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3034 Molecular Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300927 Coordinator Mark Temple Opens in new window Description Molecular Medicine is an inquiry based capstone subject that integrates core concepts in molecular and cell biology with a focus on cancer as a framework to discuss autoimmune, infectious and genetic diseases. This subject aims to enhance critical thinking for the professional environment and prepares students for future innovations in prevention, management and cure of catastrophic diseases. Current research, diagnosis, treatment and policy issues, related to health and disease states, are placed in the context of real world experiences and changing imperatives. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6144 - Molecular Basis of Disease LGYA 6012 - Mamalian Molecular Medicine Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the molecular biology of a gene in the context of various monogenic diseases and of various genes in the development of a complex disease
Outline the potential of various genetic technologies diagnose and to treat disease
Explain the potential of various molecular analyses to diagnose and to treat disease
Explain the basis of cancer genetics
Demonstrate an ability to search and collate data from internet based health databases
Evaluate new developments in functional genomics in relation to their potential to diagnose disease Subject Content 1. Molecular analyses in the context of diagnosis and treatment of disease
2. New genetic technologies in diagnosis and treatment of disease
3. The nature of cancer as characterised by genetic factors, tumor viruses and cellular oncogenes
4. Control of cell invasion, metastasis and angiogenesis by growth factors, receptors and cytoplasmic signalling and tumor suppressor genes
5. Genomic integrity and multistep tumorigenesis Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 40 N Group N  Quiz 2 x 1 hour 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Mark Temple Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Mark Temple Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Cell and Molecular Biology, Major (0167) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)