Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7014 Professional Topic Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400850 Coordinator Stewart Alford Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to allow high achieving students to comprehensively explore a relevant topic of interest to them, either through a minor supervised research project or industry-based project.  This unit's flexible delivery offers a unique experience specific to each project and student.  Students in this subject will develop extensive skills through project-based learning essential for employment and/or higher degree studies. School Health Sciences Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must have permission from subject Coordinator to enrol in this subject. Students must have GPA of 5.0 or above. Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Propose and investigate a topic area relevant to professional practice.
Critique peer-reviewed literature pertinent to the proposed topic and identify gaps in knowledge.
Design and Implement a relevant professional project.
Justify possible areas of inquiry for future research or development. Subject Content The design of this subject is flexible so that it can respond to the special needs of the student and their topic chosen for exploration. The learning activities and resources required will be individually negotiated between the student and their project supervisor. Unit content will include:
1. Project-based learning relevant to individual professional goals and available expertise within industry, academia or other relevant body.
2. Critical literature appraisal on topics relevant to the student?fs project
3. Project management skills
4. Report writing in the form of a scoping paper or research paper or industry project report. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2,500 words 40 N Individual   Scoping Report OR
Applied Research Project OR
Industrial Project Performance 3,000 words 60 N Individual Structures that include subject Master of Health (Research Studies)/PhD (4681) Master of Science (3749) Other Health (HLTH)