Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 3006 Cinema and Experience Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101984 Coordinator Adam Daniel Opens in new window Description Film Studies and Literary Studies share some common theoretical foundations and analytical methods. However, considered in its cultural contexts, the question of how a film is experienced by spectators becomes critical. Films engage spectators in an embodied and affective way. The subject will argue that we cannot understand how a film takes up thematic and cultural questions without exploring the dynamics of spectatorship. This subject will explore some key approaches to film spectatorship and will look at how cinematic techniques shape narrative, genre, character, and thematic and cultural questions into embodied and affective experience. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic and Design Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 0027 - Film Genre and Affect LGYA 0256 - Film and Affect Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Engage in critical debates about cinema spectatorship
Identify diverse historical and cultural approaches to cinematic affect
Analyse the relationships between key methodologies in film studies
Demonstrate skills in film analysis
Critique the relationships between film techniques and cultural and thematic questions. Subject Content Concepts of classical narrative and their revision
Comparative methodologies in film studies
Textual analysis of film
Cinema of attractions; cinema and modernity
The role of embodiment in spectatorship
Concepts of affect and mimetic experience
Models of affect in narrative, genre, film sound, mise en scene, cinematography and performance
Case studies of diverse film cultures and movements
Function of fantasy in film production and consumption
Contemporary forms of film production and experience Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 5 minutes / 500 words 15 N Individual N  Essay 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Essay 2000 words
 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) English, Major (0009) English, Minor (0009) Secondary English Education, Major (0354)