Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3005 I.T. Support Practicum Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300136 Coordinator Chun Ruan Opens in new window Description This subject provides students real-world experience in the area of Information Technology (IT) support. Students are located with industry partners in the Greater Western Sydney region in IT support positions for 10 hours per week over a 12 week period. In addition, students receive instruction and tuition in aspects of professional practice such as code of ethics. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) INFO 1002 AND
COMP 2013 OR
LGYA 6157 Restrictions Students must be in their final session of study and enrolled in the Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology or Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the knowledge and skills learned throughout the course in an effective, efficient, and appropriate manner.
Elicit, analyse, and interpret client requirements for general and specific appropriate information technology solutions; design (or assist in the design), implement, test, maintain, and document those solutions.
Use and apply team work, empowerment methods, meeting concepts, group techniques, and listening skills to address and resolve problems.
Communicate effectively, both in writing and orally, with clients, vendors, colleagues, employees, employers, and other people at all levels of the community and organisations within the community.
Explain the technical, economic, legal, ethical, moral, and social implications, constraints, costs and benefits of adopting and applying particular technological solutions to address personal and corporate objectives.
Participate in, and direct if necessary, a project to investigate, identify, specify, implement, test, install, and maintain an information system involving the identification and control of a set of project activities Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance not specified 100 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) IT Support, Minor (0205) Other information Technology (INFO)