Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7004 Building in Bushfire Prone Areas Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200458 Coordinator Tim Carroll Opens in new window Description This subject describes the basis for the design and construction of buildings to withstand bushfire attack, the measures that can be incorporated into building design to achieve this and the legislative building requirements affecting bushfire environments. The subject examines the mechanisms of bushfire attack on structures, the role of landscaping on building survival and how materials perform in the presence of a bushfire event. The subject describes the role of the Building Code of Australia (BCA) and Australian Standards in the construction of various building types and the legislative and regulatory environment in which this operates. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and explain the building legislation for various buildings in bushfire prone areas;
Discuss the relationship between bushfire attack and building performance;
Describe the role of landscaping in propagating bushfire in the urban interface environment;
Describe the various design options available to improve building survivability during a bushfire; and
Review the options available for construction of buildings so as to comply with building legislation, particularly with respect to the role of Australian Standards. Subject Content Overview of architectural issues for the building envelope;
Ignition of buildings in bushfires - the mechanisms operating (bushfire attack);
Design options for improved building performance;
Upgrading existing buildings;
Building Code of Australia deemed to satisfy and performance requirements;
Australian Standard for construction in bushfire prone areas - AS 3959;
Maintenance of building envelope for bushfire performance
Landscaping for bushfire prone areas Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 1000w - short essay questions. Students must achieve at least 40% in this task to achieve an overall pass for the unit 20 N Individual Y  Essay 2000w - essay. Students must achieve at least 40% in this task to achieve an overall pass for the unit 25 N Individual Y  Report 3000w - major report. Students must achieve at least 40% in this task to achieve an overall pass for the unit 35 N Individual Y  Critical Review 1,500 words 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Tim Carroll Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Environmental, Testamur Major (T058) Graduate Certificate in Building Surveying (3790) Graduate Certificate in Bushfire Protection (3794) Graduate Diploma in Building Surveying (3789) Graduate Diploma in Bushfire Protection (3793) Master of Building Surveying (3703) Master of Bushfire Protection (3708)