Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 1004 Drawing and CAD Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301228 Coordinator Songbo Hu Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills necessary to develop elementary design skills and basic CAD (Computer Aided Design) proficiency suitable for application within the building industry. Students will learn to describe building designs in plan, section, elevation, isometric and perspective views. Basic drafting concepts and skills will be acquired in the context of individual detached housing designs. Students will also be required to develop appropriate analytical and problem solving skills in dealing with a realistic house building project. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Interior and Environmental Design Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ARCH 1003 Graphic Communication and Design (WSTC)
ARCH 1001 Graphic Communication and Design
ARCH 1005 Drawing and CAD (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply architectural and technical drafting standards and symbols.
Generate ideas, designs and 3D models for sustainable housing.
Differentiate and correctly interpret site plans, survey plans, floor plans, cross sections, elevations and roof plans.
Produce the required documentation for a standard three bedroom house using a CAD program. Subject Content 1.Sketching basic house designs
2.Drawing types - Plans, elevations and sections
3.Passive solar design principles
4.Efficient floor plan layouts
5.Finishes selection
6.CAD skills
7.Construction drawing essentials
8.Bathroom layouts Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Two A3-sized sheets, hand-drawn, 1:100 scale sketches of the floor plan and two main elevations. Fully annotated to describe the design concept 40 N Individual Y  Applied Project Minimum 5 x A3 sheets of CAD construction drawings: Rendered 3D view; Site plan; Floor plan; and some Elevations 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project Minimum 5 x A3 sheets of CAD construction drawings: Rendered 3D view; Site plan; Floor plan; 4 Elevations; and 2 Sections. 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Songbo Hu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Songbo Hu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Songbo Hu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Songbo Hu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Building Design Management (3727) Bachelor of Building Design Management (Honours) (3801) Bachelor of Construction Management (Honours) (3762) Bachelor of Construction Management Advanced (Honours) (3782) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies (exit only) (3697) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Construction Technology (3692) Building (BLDG)