Academic Handbook Current Edition FINC 3014 Retirement and Succession Planning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200899 Coordinator Penny Janson Opens in new window Description Retirement and Succession Planning aims to provide a study of the legislative framework and financial planning issues that impact on advice and decisions relating to retirement planning and estate and succession planning. The subject focuses on identifying practical and strategic planning opportunities and outcomes. The subject will be run with students discussing case studies and preparing critical analysis reports on contemporary issues. Successful completion of the subject will introduce students to retirement planning and superannuation concepts which could lead to careers in these fields. School Business Discipline Banking, Finance and Related Fields, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 1004 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate communication skills through reading and writing in context of issues relevant to retirement and succession planning.
Develop information literacy through accessing, evaluating and the use of relevant information in respect of current issues and regulation relevant to subject content.
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge to solve complex and novel retirement and succession planning problems.
Demonstrate knowledge of the value of ethical conduct as a professional in the financial services industry. Subject Content Types of superannuation funds and investment and preservation standards.
The Accumulation and Taxation of Superannuation
Superannuation Benefits & Income Streams
Treatment of superannuation upon divorce and bankruptcy
Superannuation strategies and advice
Redundancy, Retirement and Eligible Termination Payments.
Estate and succession planning within financial planning.
Wills, trusts, powers of attorney.
Capital Gains Tax and estate planning.
Business Succession Planning
Social Security in Retirement
Aged care concepts and advice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Case study - 1500 words (10%); Presentation - 20 minutes (15%) 25 N Group Y  Case Study 1500 words 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Penny Janson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Banking, Finance and Related (FINC) Financial Planning and Taxation, Testamur Major (T024) Financial Planning, Testamur Major (T022) Law (LAWS) Taxation, Testamur Major (T023)