Academic Handbook Current Edition RADI 7018 Principles of Vascular Sonography 4 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401298 Coordinator Donna Oomens Opens in new window Description In 2025, this subject replaced by RADI 7024 - Applied Vascular Sonography. This subject aims to provide students with adequate knowledge and skills to practice competently and safely as vascular sonographers. Students will learn about more specialised diseases and how to detect them using ultrasound and other imaging modalities. Research skills will also be developed and students will start contributing to a wider sonographic practice by conducting a case project and presenting the report to the professional audience. The university library's vast teaching and research resources will provide an important means for facilitating learning in this subject. School Medicine Discipline Radiography Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) RADI 7017 Co-requisite(s) RADI 7014 - Practice of Vascular Sonography 4 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4765 Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography Assumed Knowledge Basic human anatomy and physiology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Assess atherosclerosis and aneurysmal development and relate to current treatment strategies (CLO 1)
Evaluate the causes and effects of venous disease, including patient outcomes (CLO 1)
Differentiate the unique characteristics of arterio-venous fistulae/grafts, and their assessment (CLO 3)
Appraise principles of transplant surgery and the role ultrasound plays pre and post-surgery (CLO 4)
Produce a report for a wider audience, including peers and other health professionals, based on a self-generated research project on vascular sonography (CLO 7) Subject Content Vascular pathophysiology III
1.Abdominal vascular pathology
2.Venous insufficiency
3.Arterio-venous fistulae and grafts
4.Renal & liver transplant
Case Study & Research Skills 2
1.Principles of Research
2.Literature review
3.Statistical analysis of collected data Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 15 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 35 N Individual N  Case Study 1500 words 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Donna Oomens Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Vascular Sonography (4765) Radiography (RADI)