Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7011 Practical Philosophy Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102618 Coordinator Diego Bubbio Opens in new window Description The subject Practical Philosophy deals with the application of philosophical understanding to human activity. 'Practical philosophy' in principle encompasses questions of the meaning and appropriateness of various practices, as well as theoretical questions about the nature of practices themselves, questions such as 'What should we do?' and 'What is it that we are doing?' The subject may thus involve considering philosophical perspectives on ethical, political, educational, and legal questions, and more abstract considerations relating to practices such as the philosophy of action. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Philosophy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate advanced and integrated knowledge of the topics in practical philosophy covered in the subject teaching.
Explain theories and methods in practical philosophy.
Understand key philosophical texts and arguments.
Critically evaluate complex information, perspectives, theories and sources.
Demonstrate knowledge of the research principles and methods appropriate to the practical philosophy to address contemporary philosophical problems and debates. Subject Content One or more thinkers and philosophical movements in practical philosophy still exerting influence on contemporary philosophy.
One or more topics in ethics, political philosophy, legal philosophy, philosophy of science, philosophy of religion, or the philosophy of praxis. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,000 (5x400 words) 35 N Individual   Essay 5,500 words 65 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)