Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 7019 International Criminal Law and Justice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200962 Coordinator Souheir Edelbi Opens in new window Description This subject critically examines the current state of international criminal law within the broader international legal system. It focuses on both the substantive and procedural law as well as the institutions that regulate the investigation, prosecution and punishment of international crimes. It will explore the elements and jurisprudence surrounding the definition of core international crimes, consider general principles of international criminal law, and analyse the shortcomings of international criminal tribunals from the perspective of the Global South. School Law Discipline International Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7057 Restrictions Students must be in 2824 Master of Laws or 2826 Juris Doctor to enrol in this subject. Students in program 8083 Bachelor of Research Studies or 1923 Master of Global Security and Justice should seek permission from the law school via a rule waiver to enrol in this subject. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate fundamental principles of international criminal law, including an understanding of the issues involved in the regulation of international crimes.
Critically apply relevant legal principles and procedures to contemporary situations and contexts of international crime. 
Critically analyse the theoretical, political, historical and practical dimensions of international criminal law, focusing particularly on critiques relating to/from the Global South. 
Critically reflect upon the key challenges, weaknesses and limitations of international criminal law and the international criminal legal system. 
Articulate persuasive arguments supported by evidence about key points of international criminal law. Subject Content Introduction to International Criminal Law
History and Critique of International Criminal Law 
Institutions Responsible for Prosecuting International Crimes
The International Criminal Court 
Genocide.
Crimes against Humanity 
War Crimes and Aggression
Modes of Liability and Defences 
Victims and Witnesses in International Criminal Law 
Transitional, Indigenous and Community-based Approaches to Justice 
Australia and International Criminal Law 
The Function of International Criminal Law: Challenges and Opportunities Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation Ongoing 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,000 words 45 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,500 words 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Souheir Edelbi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923) Master of Laws (2824)