Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3004 Advanced Science Project C Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300910 Coordinator Bill Price Opens in new window Description This subject advances the students' training in thinking as a research scientist whilst developing practical skills in a particular area of interest. The student undertakes a minor research project under supervision, during which they plan how to answer a research problem, conduct research and present their findings in a research paper format and seminar. School Science Discipline Natural and Physical Sciences, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 2002 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 6169 - Advanced Science Research Project C Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points. Students must be enrolled in 3562 - Bachelor of Science (Advanced Science), 3682 - Bachelor of Medical Science (Advanced) or 3683 - Bachelor of Natural Science (Advanced). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Access, review, critique and analyse relevant literature on a given research topic.
Plan and conduct a research project.
Analyse and critique scientific data.
Prepare a concise and accurate report in the style appropriate to the project (usually a journal article).
Effectively communicate research findings orally as part of a research seminar.
Engage with researchers in different fields to gain knowledge of the broader research environment. Subject Content Conduct a short research project and present their findings as a written journal article and a research seminar. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students who opt to enrol in subject are strongly recommended to obtain a Q-Fever vaccination, and Tetanus vaccination/booster. Students who cannot evidence vaccination may be precluded from activities on the Farm, and/or internships with third parties. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words max 20 N Individual N  Report Following instructions for authors of the chosen journal 4,000 words max 50 N Individual N  Presentation 10 min 20 N Individual N  Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)