Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 3009 Air Quality and Climate Change Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301391 Coordinator Maggie Davidson Opens in new window Description Deteriorating air quality and climate change are two major challenges facing humanity and threatening environmental sustainability and human health.  As such, air quality and climate change are of International, National, State and local community concern.  This subject critically analyses the many issues that relate to air pollution, including its nature, extent, impacts and monitoring. Students will examine an air pollution issue of their choice. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 3001 - Air Quality and Climate Change LGYA 6192 - Air Quality Management Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points at Level 1 and 40 credit points at Level 2. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the major sources of air pollution and critically analyse associated impacts on human health and environmental sustainability.
Describe the impact of meteorology on air pollution in a local area.
Critically analyse the health effects of air pollution.
Evaluate and analyse the monitoring and assessment of air pollution.
Critically analyse the causes and the main methods of controlling point sources of air pollution.
Apply and evaluate basic air modelling techniques.
Evaluate indoor air problems. Subject Content Introduction to Air Pollution
Impact of legislation on Ambient Air Pollution
Sources of Air Pollution
Motor Vehicles and their impact on air pollution
Sources and human health effects of air pollution
Climatology
Air quality assessment and air modelling
What is a critical literature review relating to air pollution
Indoor Air Quality Odour Assessment
Global Issues - Climate Change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Literature Review 2000 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Environmental Studies (ENVL)