Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 7002 Applied Practice in Literary Studies and Creative Writing Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102222 Coordinator Fiona Wright Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject is replaced by CART 6004 - Creative Writing practice. This subject familiarises students with the practice of pursuing and presenting research and methods in literature and related forms as well as with regard to the kinds of research required for undertaking creative work. It provides students with the opportunity to explore these methods in their own research and/or creative practice. This subject opens out into workshops in which students work through elements of the work they are developing for their masters project. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects HUMN 4009 - Research Design 1 Theories of Enquiry HUMN 4010 - Research Design 2 Practices of Research Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1797 or 1831 Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Read, understand and interpret complex literary texts
Write at a high level in a range of critical and creative forms
Explain the elements involved in properly constructing an argument
Reflect on the significance of literary texts in imagining and interpreting the world
Construct coherent, evidence-based arguments of literary scholarship
Identify the range of methods used to produce good quality work of creative writing. Subject Content This subject will develop the practice of:
1. research and writing particular to literary studies and criticism
2. research and writing particular to creative writing
3. surveying the publishing scene to consider publishing options
4. surveying the literary critical scene in Australia and internationally to consider placing works of criticism
5. considering the focus and the impact of the writing practice being attempted (creative or critical)
6. writing and workshopping critical and/or creative work
7. reading and critically engaging with the work of others
8. designing a longer piece of creative or critical work for the masters project Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Peer Review 500 words 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Creative Arts (CART)