Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 3008 Gymnastics and Dance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400896 Coordinator Rhiannon White Opens in new window Description Students actively engage in a variety of gymnastics activities to develop skill competencies on vault, bars, beam, and floor. Students will also learn about a variety of dance styles and apply movement composition principles. Students will consider safety principles and learn teaching strategies that will enable them to teach gymnastics and dance accurately and safely in line with the Health and Physical Education curriculum. Students will also design their own original teaching and learning ideas that are active, enjoyable, and educational, to ensure they can implement quality gymnastics and dance learning experiences in PE. School Health Sciences Discipline Performing Arts, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 0700 - Human Movement 5 PERF 3008 - Introduction to Dance Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4742 Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary), 4747 Bachelor of Health Science (HPE) or 6001 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Interpret content from the Australian Health and Physical Education (HPE) curriculum in the contexts of gymnastics and dance
Demonstrate understanding of safety principles and teaching points relevant to gymnastics and dance activities
Demonstrate a range of movement skills in the gymnastics and dance context
Design enjoyable and active games and activities that integrate gymnastics skills into Physical Education lessons.
Critically analyse the inclusion of gymnastics and dance in physical education. Subject Content 1.Learning gymnastics skills and dance styles
2.Teaching, planning, and creating gymnastics activities and dance routines
3.Understanding gymnastics and dance in school physical education
4.Cultural interpretations of dance
5.Biomechanics of gymnastics
6.Movement composition to music
7.Safety considerations when teaching sport activities
8.Health and physical education curriculum Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 5-10 minutes 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 8 minutes maximum 40 N Individual N  Reflection 5-8 minutes 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Rhiannon White Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (4747) Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education)-Pathway to Teaching (Secondary) (4742) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Leisure for Diverse Groups, Minor (0253) Other Health (HLTH) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)