Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7029 Medical Interpreting (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100922 Coordinator Dae Young Kim Opens in new window Description This subject aims to develop students' skills and knowledge in interpreting at the Professional level (formerly NAATI Level 3) through the modes of dialogue interpreting, consecutive interpreting, simultaneous interpreting and sight translation in the domain of health services. Lectures are held in English for students of all languages. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin, Spanish, Korean and Vietnamese. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 3385 - Medical Interpreting Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Bilingual competence in English and one of the languages offered by the School for the interpreting and translation programs. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: interpret a dialogue with segments of up to 60 words in length, in simulated triangular medical situations
interpret accurately over the phone or via video-link in medical/health settings
sight-translate documents such as medical papers, consent forms, information sheets, into both languages
interpret consecutively into both languages, passages of up to 300 words in length
interpret simultaneously into both languages, medical conference material as well as doctor's consultations with mental health patients
acquire an understanding of doctor-patient communication in the Australian context
apply essential knowledge of medical language, its history and etymology, and use the vocabulary relating to advanced medical matters
explain the ethical and cultural considerations of Health Care Interpreters
apply knowledge of the Australian medical system and of the medical system in the country/ies where the student's other language is spoken
demonstrate the skills to recognise prefixes, suffixes and root words, identify their meanings and build words, and identify words used with pathological conditions. Subject Content 1. Theory and practice of dialogue interpreting in medical settings.
2. Theory and practice of consecutive interpreting in medical settings.
3. Theory and practice of sight translation of medical documents.
4. Theory and practice of simultaneous interpreting in medical settings.
5. Theory and practice of telephone and video-link interpreting in medical/health settings.
6. The history and main features of medical language.
7. Basic concepts and vocabulary relating to advanced medical matters.
8. Knowledge relating to working as a Health Care Interpreter.
9. Knowledge relating to the role and ethics of a Health Care Interpreter.
10. Knowledge relating to the Health Care systems of Australia.
11. Medical Terminology: prefixes, suffixes, and root words Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2--30 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Essay 1500-2000 
words 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 30 – 40 
minutes 40 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 hour 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dae Young Kim Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting (1775) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting Studies (exit only) (1778) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777)