Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 3006 Family Violence: Policy and Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101597 Coordinator Michel Edenborough Opens in new window Description This subject examines the nature, incidence and extent of family violence. The focus is on the effects on women and children, who are the victims of this violence. Current sociological explanations are examined, including a critical examination of the myths and stereotypes that help to reinforce the hidden nature of this problem. Some solutions and possible ways of alleviating the suffering caused by this violence are canvassed. School Social Sciences Discipline Human Welfare Studies and Services, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1388 - Family Violence Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the scope and impact of family violence.
Critically evaluate a range of theoretical perspectives utilised to understand family violence.
Evaluate cross-cultural (including Aboriginal) perspectives in relation to family violence.
Critically evaluate policies that have been devised to deal with family violence.
Critically assess policies and practices that deal with family violence. Subject Content Conceptualising the family; official definitions and assumptions; diversity and difference; public and private domains.
Theories of the family from the ?ehaven in a heartless world?f, to the ?efamily as a place of harm?f.
History of research on family violence: Australia and internationally.
Family violence and the effects and consequences for children, young women, older women, Aboriginal women, women with disabilities, women from non-English speaking backgrounds, women living in rural or isolated areas, gay couples, lesbian couples and men.
Overview of policy initiatives, programs and strategies to deal with family violence: Australia and international.
Developing promising practices and policies. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 800 words 30 N Individual N  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual N WSU Online Trimester 1 The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Annotated Bibliography 800 words 30 N Individual N  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Michel Edenborough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Michel Edenborough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michel Edenborough Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Rosalind Priestman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Social Science (1667) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Child and Community, Major (0045) Child and Community, Minor (0045) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)