Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7011 Health Advancement and Health Promotion Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400418 Coordinator Dafna Merom Opens in new window Description By investigating and addressing the multilevel determinants of health outcomes and inequalities, health promotion initiatives aim to improve the health and wellbeing of individuals and societies.   In this unit, we will nurture an understanding of concepts and models of health promotion, evaluate the relative successes of recent and classic initiatives within Australia and overseas, and critically engage with debates concerned with the most appropriate strategies for tackling health inequalities in the context of major societal challenges (e.g. population ageing, urbanisation and climate change). Core competencies are nurtured (e.g. Plan and evaluate an intervention) to prepare students for practicing and further study in the field of health promotion. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and apply different principles and theoretical positions to interpret beliefs and health behaviours
Critically analyse the barriers and factors enhancing health promotion action
Develop ways of working effectively with individuals, groups, communities and populations
Determine priorities for health promotion action from available evidence
Design health promoting strategies that are culturally relevant, financially sound and sustainable Subject Content 1. Health promotion, health education, illness prevention, primary health care, the ?gnew?h public health and health outcomes
2. Principles and competing ideologies in health promotion
3. National health priorities and local examples
4. Health promotion competencies: needs analysis, planning interventions, levels of evaluation and ways to secure funding
5. Approaches to health promotion for individuals, groups, communities and populations
6. Health promotion techniques and ?ebigger picture?f approaches: settings, policy, legislative, environmental and engineering methods
7. The underlying philosophy, models and theories of health promotion
8. Principles of best practice: evidence-based health promotion
9. Sustainability, public policy and advocacy in health advancement and promotion
10. Partnerships, engagement and collaboration in health advancement and promotion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 500 words 25 N Individual N  Professional Task 2,500 words 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Dafna Merom Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Healthy Places) (1899) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Public Health (4704) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Health, Testamur Major (T140) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Health (Research Studies)/PhD (4681) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Public Health (4702) Master of Science (3749) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Project Management (Generic Program), Major (0063) Public Health (PUBH)