Academic Handbook Current Edition EART 7001 Advanced Hydrogeology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301014 Coordinator Ataur Rahman Opens in new window Description This subject covers occurrence of groundwater, groundwater movement, groundwater hydraulics, water wells, quality of groundwater, groundwater modelling and groundwater management. The objectives of this subject are to enable students to learn the associated concept of groundwater and apply the learnt concepts in solving groundwater problems in advanced engineering practice. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Hydrology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge of groundwater movement, groundwater hydraulics and water wells to solve hydrogeological problems.
Apply groundwater quality modelling techniques.
Evaluate groundwater pollution and management problems.
Analyse groundwater modelling and exploration techniques.
Evaluate current Australian codes and software to solve groundwater problems.
Critically evaluate current literature to benchmark recent problems and developments in groundwater engineering practice.
Design sustainable groundwater engineering projects. Subject Content 1. Occurrence of groundwater
2. Groundwater movement
3. Groundwater and well hydraulics
4. Water wells
5. Groundwater levels and environmental influences
6. Quality of groundwater
7. Pollution of groundwater
8. Management of groundwater
9. Groundwater modelling
10. Groundwater investigation Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual N  Report 5,000 words 30 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Ataur Rahman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Earth Sciences (EART) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012)