Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1003 Biometry Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200263 Coordinator Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window Description Biometry introduces students to various statistical techniques necessary in scientific endeavours. Presentation of the content will emphasise the correct principles and procedures for collecting and analysing scientific data, using a hands-on approach. Topics include effective methods of gathering data, statistical principles of designing experiments, error analysis, describing different sets of data, probability distributions, statistical inference, non-parametric methods, simple linear regression and analysis of categorical data. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Statistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects MATH 1032 - Statistics for Science MATH 1028 - Statistical Decision Making MATH 1030 - Statistics for Business ECON 1006 - Introduction to Economic Methods 30123 - Management Analytics Incompatible Subjects MATH 1025 - Quantitative Techniques Assumed Knowledge HSC Mathematics or equivalent. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: apply the basic principles of statistical design incorporating error analysis
design a simple scientific experiment, and then carry out and analyse the data obtained
estimate population means using confidence intervals
test hypotheses about population means using parametric techniques and find appropriate sample sizes for experiments
use regression and correlation techniques to describe relationships between variables
use the chi-square test for goodness of fit and test for independence to analyse categorical type data
develop statistical computing skills as part of a 'tool-kit' for solving statistical problems. (R-commander) Subject Content 1. Overview - What is Statistical Thinking? And what role does in play in Scientific Research.
2. Gathering Data - Types of data and dealing with measurements
3. Statistical Principles of Design - understanding randomness; types of sampling including observational studies, experiments, blocking and stratification, and levels of replication; sampling concerns.
4. Describing Sets of Data - Qualitative data; graphical methods for describing quantitative data; numerical measures of central tendency and variability; dealing with errors; error bars
5. Basic probability concepts; enough to understand p-values, confidence intervals and independence. Normal distributon and methods for assessing normality; use of transformations to meet assumptions; sampling distributions; the Central Limit Theorem.
6. Estimation with Confidence Intervals: Single sample - Large and small sample confidence intervals for a population mean; determining the sample size.
7. Tests of Hypothesis: Single sample - Elements of a statistical test; type I and type II errors; large and small sample test of hypothesis about a population mean; p-values.
8. Comparing Population Means: Estimation and Hypothesis testing - Comparing two population means: independent sampling and paired difference sampling; comparing three or more population means: one-way and two-way ANOVA;
9. Simple Linear Regression and Correlation - Least squares approach; assessing the usefulness of the model; using the model for estimation and prediction; the coefficients of correlation and determination.
10. Analysis of Categorical Data - Test for independence and 'Goodness-of-fit' test. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 75 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes (per quiz) 25 N Individual N  Quiz 10 minutes 10 N Individual Y External Students The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 75 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes each for 5 online quizzes 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours open book 50 Y Individual Y Autumn Hybrid The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Numerical Problem Solving 75 minutes 25 N Individual Y  Quiz 30 minutes (per quiz) 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours open book 40 Y Individual Y  Quiz 10 minutes 10 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown Hybrid Subject Contact Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury Hybrid Subject Contact Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd Hybrid Subject Contact Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Nishanthi Raveendran Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Agrifood, Testamur Major (T123) Anatomy and Physiology, Testamur Major (T084) Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Biology, Testamur Major (T053) Biomedical Science, Testamur Major (T086) Chemistry, Testamur Major (T026) Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Environmental Health, Testamur Major (T076) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Human Nutrition, Testamur Major (T125) Innovative Foods, Testamur Major (T124) Mathematics (MATH) Social Media Analytics, Minor (0147) Statistics, Minor (0148) Sustainable Environmental Futures, Testamur Major (T120) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)