Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7035 Funds Management and Portfolio Selection Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 51168 Coordinator Anil Mishra Opens in new window Description This subject provides an introduction to the theory, concepts, tools, techniques and applications of investment management, drawing on examples from the Australian financial system. The subject focuses on various asset pricing models including capital asset pricing model, single index model arbitrage pricing theory and Fama-French three factor model. The subject introduces various portfolio management strategies, asset classes including bonds and equity securities. The subject also highlights various fund performance measures. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. The online offerings for this subject are only available to students enrolled in the fully online program 2770 Master of Commerce (Financial Planning) or 2807 Master of Stockbroking and Financial Advising. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Recognise the factors that affect asset, especially share prices;
Interpret the Markowitz model of portfolio allocation, single index model, Arbitrage Pricing Theory, Fama-French model and related applications;
Explain the Efficient Market Hypothesis;
Apply the various performance evaluation techniques for managed funds;
Discuss the bond management techniques: duration, convexity, immunisation and applications;
Discuss the passive and active portfolio management techniques and applications;
Discuss the international investment environment. Subject Content Advanced Macroeconomic matters
Advanced Systems and linkages
Advanced Financial products
How to choose an appropriate structure to meet the needs of a client
Advanced Regulation
Explaining the advice process in a manner that the client understands
Advanced Research and research methodologies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1.5 hours 20 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words and 5 minutes 35 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Anil Mishra Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Anil Mishra Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Diploma in Applied Finance (exit only) (2796) Master of Applied Finance (2759) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782) Master of Finance (2705) Master of Financial Planning (2793)