Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 1021 Working with Communities (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700139 Coordinator Mona Shrestha Opens in new window Description This introductory subject provides foundational skills and knowledge required for professional practice in a range of social science related careers in which working with and as part of communities is essential. With an emphasis on practical understanding through both team-work and fieldwork it introduces students to a range of skills in interpersonal and written communication, and to community and organisational processes and structures. It enables students to identify issues of change; conflicting and collaborative interests; participation and collaboration. It provides practical experience in working with others to achieve shared objectives with mechanisms for goal setting, issues identification, information and resource sharing that operate in everyday life and all professional contexts School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 1011 - Organisations Communities and Communication CULT 1020 - Working with Communities LGYB 0465 - Organisations Communities and Communication Incompatible Subjects WELF 1008 - Skills Development in the Human Service Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe key concepts and perspectives in community scholarship
Explain how key concepts and perspectives are connected to their individual experience of community, and to a range of professions that work with communities
Collect and analyse relevant information about an example community from scholarly and professional perspectives
Propose an approach to working with an example community from a professional perspective
Explain the importance of community empowerment, capacity-building, community diversity and social justice, to society and the individual;
Utilise online technologies to organise, share and communicate Indigenous-related topics and issues. Subject Content 1. Communities' as dynamic, social groups that are both political and contested entities and exist as multi-scalar (local, regional, international) collectives of interest, as virtual as well as place based.
2. Contextualising the concept of 'community' on abstract and concrete levels. What does the concept of community mean and how is this negotiated in terms of 'belonging' and participating
3. How different types of organisations and institutions - global to local - public and private - formal and informal- serve shared needs
4. Social processes of participation, and the issues of trust, cooperation, communication and collaboration in everyday life and in working life
5. How different organisations, stakeholders and groups within society can work together to achieve shared goals and visions
6. Communications - written and oral forms of communication in everyday and in professional practice.
7. Preparation for field/group work, including working as a team, ethical considerations and integrity, identifying issues, goal setting, defining field work objectives, introductory research skills, analysing secondary data, preparing oral presentation and written reports. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minute group presentation 15 N Group   Literature Review  35 N Individual   Report 15 minutes 20 N Group   Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Structures that include subject Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice Extended (7154) Diploma in Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice (6025) Diploma in Social Science (Policing) Extended (7168) Diploma in Social Science (exit only) (7050) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Humanitarian and Development Studies (7156) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Social Science (7157) Diploma in Social Science Extended - Tourism Management (7159) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Social Science (6023) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Tourism Management (6030) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)