Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 2016 Evidence and Investigation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102691 Coordinator Adrian Leiva Opens in new window Description This subject provides an overview of police investigations with a specific focus on understanding the interaction of police powers and the investigative process. The subject will build on knowledge of the common criminal offences covered in the subject 'Criminal Law for Policing' and outline the investigative process through scenario-based case studies. The subject will refer to both NSW and Commonwealth legislation, and examine the role of the courts in applying the rules of evidence to determine its reliability to be admitted as evidence at a trial. The subject will examine the impact of technological change and forensic science on the traditional investigative process, and provide students an introduction to research into the organisation, processes and governance of Investigative Units. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects JUST 2005 - Criminal Investigations Incompatible Subjects CULT 2006 - Evidence Investigations and Police Intelligence Assumed Knowledge An understanding of the basic criminal law offences in the Crimes and Summary Offences Act and Criminal Code Act (Cwlth), to allow non-Policing students to enrol in this subject as an elective without otherwise having to seek a rule waiver by the specification of a prerequisite subject. Learning Outcomes Explain and utilise a range of investigative practices.
Apply relevant legislation to the investigative process.
Identify the role and limits of police powers and their interaction with the investigative process.
Compare and contrast reliable and unreliable evidence and the role of the courts to evidence gathered by investigators.
Describe the organisation, processes and governance of different investigative models. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Critical Review 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Multiple Choice 2 hours 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Bradley Goodhart Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Bradley Goodhart Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Policing (exit only) (1930) Bachelor of Policing (1844) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Diploma in Social Science (Policing)/Bachelor of Policing (6044) Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST) Law Enforcement Studies, Minor (0308) Other Society and Culture (CULT)