Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3009 Exercise Rehabilitation Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400997 Coordinator Rocco Cavaleri Opens in new window Description Exercise Rehabilitation focuses on the assessment and management of patients using exercise training. All patient groups are covered but there is an emphasis on cardiorespiratory disorders. Professional competencies addressed in this subject include an understanding of the normal physiological responses to exercise, the implications of pathology and exercise. The subject also includes further development and practice of skills in the patient physical examination, and clinical reasoning such that hypothesized problem lists and goals for patients are developed.  The prescription of exercise-based interventions with other physiotherapy modalities is also covered. This subject also facilitates the attainment of professional competencies including effective communication skills, ethical reasoning, professional behaviour, and an appreciation of interprofessional care. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) NATS 2038 AND
REHA 2001 AND
HLTH 2024 Co-requisite(s) REHA 3017 AND
REHA 3015 AND
AND
REHA 3003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4662 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Physiotherapy, 4706 Bachelor of Physiotherapy, 4707 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) or 4733 Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours). Students in this program are required to participate fully in practical classes. This involves disrobing to shorts and singlet or swim-suit equivalent in mixed gender classes. Students will practice hands-on physiotherapy examination and treatment techniques on both genders, and will personally experience these techniques which will be performed on them by other students and relevant academic staff. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of Human anatomy, human physiology, pathophysiology. Learning Outcomes Interpret common cardiorespiratory disorders and related disabilities in the Australian population
Describe normal physiological responses and limitations to exercise in a healthy population across the lifespan
Differentiate between the benefits, risks, and limitations of exercise in populations with pathology
Apply complex clinical assessment skills including chest x-ray interpretation, lung function testing, auscultation, electrocardiographs interpretation and exercise tolerance of patients with cardiorespiratory disorders
Apply principles of safe exercise testing in patients with pathology
Perform advanced case sensitive analyses and interpretation of clinical assessment findings to formulate a patient-centred treatment plan
Prescribe safe and effective exercise training in patients with pathology
Evaluate and progress exercises appropriately in healthy populations and those with pathology
Apply professionalism, effective communication and educative skills with exercise therapy Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 30 minutes 30 Y Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Group Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rocco Cavaleri Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (4706) Bachelor of Physiotherapy (Honours) (4733) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)