Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2014 Community Translation (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100191 Coordinator Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window Description Community Translation facilitates written communication between public services and community members with low literacy in the official or mainstream language(s) of a given country or region. The subject covers the translation of general awareness material (e.g. healthcare, civic responsibilities, social services, etc.) as well as the translation of official documents. Students develop skills in producing target texts in styles appropriate to specific communities and groups, and to the content and function of the source text. They also develop skills in researching and using appropriate specialist terminology, editing and revising, and producing camera-ready documents. On the basis of these skills, the subject further develops students' ability to reflect upon translation in terms of strategies and appropriateness in relation to the target audience as well as make critical written and oral assessment of relevant translations.  Subject to demand, the subject will be available for Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin and Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students need to be bilingual (in the language combinations offered by the School). Assumed Knowledge Sufficient proficiency in English plus one other language at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes Appropriately translate general texts from English into their community language;
Demonstrate translation skills following NAATI guidelines (250 words of text in 60 minutes);
Analyse and reflect upon their own translations (in terms of translation strategies appropriate to their community) to develop resources for improvement;
Apply the insights of Translation Theory to translation critique as well as to their practice of translation; and
Demonstrate translation revision skills at a near-professional level of competence. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task Translation revision: 250 words approx. Commentary: 500-1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Translation 250 words or equivalent 
each 40 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mustapha Taibi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)