Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7016 Digital Social Research in Action Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102253 Coordinator Erika Smith Opens in new window Description This subject engages students in the practices of digital social research through a simulation of a professional research consultancy. Students will construct and apply a digital social science approach for an internal or external client brief. Students will engage with client and stakeholder needs through their role as a consultant as they carry out the digital social research project for their client. In doing so, students engage with the ethical and moral implications of using digital social data and discover the opportunities to apply and communicate digital social research methods in real world settings. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of digital social research. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Determine opportunities to apply digital social science methods in innovative contexts;
Justify the selection and application of digital social science methods for a particular problem;
Construct and apply a digital social science approach to research;
Communicate digital social science projects in a manner appropriate for the discipline, audience and purpose (e.g. audience-appropriate structure, content, and referencing style);
Manage client and stakeholder expectations to ensure ethical and moral conduct in the use of digital social science data. Subject Content Research conceptualisation including research aims, objectives, and questions
The importance of social theory for digital research
Research designs and analytical frameworks for digital social research
Client and stakeholders engagement
Stakeholder mapping and management of expectations
Ethical and moral use of digital social data
Progress tracking for successful project delivery
Report writing and strategic communication Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10 minutes 20 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words 50 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Graduate Certificate in User Experience (3788) Master of Global Security and Justice (1923)