Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 1010 Positive Psychology: The Science of Happiness,  Resilience, and Wellbeing Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102606 Coordinator Samuel Arnold Opens in new window Description We live in an increasingly volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous (VUCA) world which places greater emotional demands on people and organisations. This subject introduces the Positive Psychology theory, research and the practical evidence-based techniques to enhance wellbeing and resilience in an increasingly VUCA world. Positive psychology is an emerging field of academic study and practical application in personal and work settings which focuses on the creation of individual resilience, strengths and virtues, creativity and other indicators of human flourishing. Throughout this subject, students will be encouraged to actively engage and apply the positive psychology concepts taught within the course and to critically reflect on these experiences to bring about personal change. School Psychology Discipline Behavioural Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the major themes in the nature and history of positive psychology.
Discuss the important role of positive psychology in varying contexts.
Outline the key theoretical concepts and major empirical findings in the domains of positive psychology covered in the subject: optimism, resilience, wellbeing, motivation, cognition and emotion.
Critically reflect on positive psychology theory and empirical research.
Summarise the application of techniques learned in positive psychology.
Demonstrate the capacity to implement empirically-driven strategies explored within the subject. Subject Content 1. The Nature and History of Positive Psychology: Some of the questions we seek to answer are What is Positive Psychology? Where does Positive psychology fits into the history of psychology? Who should study/use positive psychology How Positive Psychology uses the Scientific Method?
2. Optimism and Resilience: What is the difference between irrational and realistic optimism? What is the evidence for optimism on various life outcomes? Can realistic optimism and resilience be learned? What are the different explanatory styles? How explanatory styles influence resilience? Are there practical ways to have a flexible explanatory style in preparation for a stressor (rather than just response)?
3. Happiness: What is happiness and can it be measured? What is going on in the brain? Is happiness state or trait based? What is the research on the dynamic pursuit of happiness? How can we increase happiness and positive emotions? Is there a benefit to increasing happiness other than just feeling good? Are there practical evidence-based techniques to increase happiness?
4. Character strengths: Focus on individual differences in personality and strengths of character. Is there a ?ehappy?f or ?esuccessful?f personality? Can we increase positive outcomes by first looking at individual strengths and individual weaknesses in performance/character?
5. Positive emotions and success outcomes. What is the relationship between positive emotions and many of life?fs success outcomes? Is this relationship causal? What are the theories that highlight this relationship? What practical evidence-based techniques can I bring into my daily life?
6. Meaning, purpose, and positive connections. What i Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 2 x 1000 words each 60 N Individual N  Quiz 4 x 20 questions 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods WSU Online TRI-1 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Samuel Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Samuel Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Samuel Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Samuel Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window WSU Online TRI-3 (2024) Wsu Online Online Subject Contact Samuel Arnold Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Psychological Science (exit only) (1904) Bachelor of Psychological Science and Criminology (1906) Bachelor of Psychological Studies (exit only) (1835) Bachelor of Psychological and Social Sciences (1910) Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) (1865) Behavioural Science (BEHV) Creative Living for Cultural Wellbeing, Minor (0334) Psychology Extension, Minor (0186)