Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1046 Data Dynamics: Influence, Ethics, and Power (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Ben Fletcher Opens in new window Description This subject examines the primary role played by data in determining how we live in the world. This includes how we interact with the world, its people, and digital artefacts, in terms of communication and meaning. The subject focuses on technologies of control and governance related to algorithmic architectures and data economies. Who benefits from data and mediation and what are the limits and possibilities of data? Ultimately, this kind of critical analysis invites us to think about what constitutes a just, democratic society and what constitutes an ethical media life. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Communication And Media Studies Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 1011 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in an existing College Diploma program listed below: Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify how data both influences and governs individuals and society
Discuss the impact of commercial interests in capture and use of data 
Analyse the ways in which data affects meaning (e.g., assessment of performance, analysis of texts, policy making informed by demographic modelling.)
Evaluate the limits and possibilities of data and its relation to the operation of power
Discuss ethical frameworks in relation to the gathering, use and transmission of data Subject Content Identify and critique the key features of network cultures, including an historical overview of the miniaturisation of technology.
Examination of cultural contexts and mobile media and assessment of the interrelation between mobile media, privacy, and public culture.
Overview of policy and the impact upon the availability of mobile media commodities and access to content 
Assessment of the impact of network cultures as emergent institutional forms that challenge more traditional, modern institutional forms (state, firm, union, university).
Critical investigation of concepts of freedom and the extent to which mobile media facilitate and/or restrict forms of social and cultural mobility.
Identification of the limits of mobility, media, and geo-cultural settings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 3 mins + poster 15 N Individual N  Case Study 800 words 30 N Individual N  Critical Review 800 words 30 N Individual N  Reflection 800 words (or equivalent) 25 N Individual N Structures that include subject Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Arts (7195) Diploma in Building Design and Construction (7192) Diploma in Business (7190) Diploma in Creative Industries and Communication (7194) Diploma in Education Studies (7197) Diploma in Engineering Studies (7193) Diploma in Health Science (7189) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (7191) Diploma in Science (7196)