Academic Handbook Current Edition GEDU 0009 Tertiary Study Skills in Health Science (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 0 Legacy Code 700170 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to assist students to become successful independent reflective learners. It introduces students to a range of theories and concepts to facilitate the development of practical skills and personal attitudes necessary for success in tertiary study. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Learning Skills Programs Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate skills and knowledge about the theory and practise of what constitutes an successful independent reflective learner in tertiary education
Access and explore tertiary education and to make informed choices about the future direction of their education
Communicate ideas and information in a style appropriate to an academic setting
Use improved interpersonal skills to become effective group members and develop a peer support network
Locate and use appropriate educational technologies Subject Content 1. The College Policies and Procedures
2. Apply time management skills and independent learning
3. Factors influencing student success- Self-efficacy and support for success
4. Reflection
5. Making videos and using YouTube
6. Group work
7. Exploring key programs in health science
8. Group work on presentations
9. Presentations
10. Other qualifications offered at WSU and the college RTO
11. Employability and volunteering
12. Subjects for next term Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 15 N Individual   Applied project 500 words 20 N Individual   Presentation 2-3 minutes pp 30 N Group   Report 1000 words 35 N Individual Structures that include subject General Education Programs (GEDU)