Academic Handbook Current Edition AGEN 3001 Animal Behaviour Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300878 Coordinator John Hunt Opens in new window Description Focusing on a variety of wildlife and domestic animal species, the subject addresses how classic ecological and evolutionary principles shape animal behaviour by weighing the experimental and observational evidence for each idea. We illustrate concepts with examples from a wide range of taxonomic groups of animals in diverse ecosystems. Students will conduct experimental field and laboratory procedures, as well as observe and work with groups of animals on the UWS Hawkesbury campus. School Science Discipline Agriculture, Environmental and Related Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects AGEN 3002 - Animal Behaviour Restrictions Successful completion of 120 credit points in the Bachelor of Science OR Bachelor of Natural Sciences. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Integrate basic evolutionary theory and genetics principles to determine how/why animal behaviour is both related to and shaped by evolution/genetics.
Determine how cost/benefit/risk can be identified in the context of optimality and game theories to formulate and test ultimate and proximate hypotheses for behaviours.
Describe the evolution of different reproductive strategies and mating patterns and strategies, and how tools such as phylogenetics and experimentation can be used to study it.
Determine how the evolution of animal behaviour is used to understand aspects of human behaviour.
Explain why understanding the ethology of companion animals and domestic stock is important in our interactions with them.
Conduct field investigations safely and ethically in the field and laboratory, using sampling methodology correctly to obtain valid data.
Use spreadsheets and statistical tools in analytical programs to enter, analyse and graph data and to draw appropriate conclusions from data.
Communicate findings correctly in oral or in written form using an appropriate style, accessing the scientific literature to place the findings in context. Subject Content 1. The proximate control, organisation, and development of animal behaviour
2. The ecological and evolutionary mechanisms underlying animal behaviour
3. Foundational and contemporary theories of animal behaviour, as well as the application of animal behaviour
4. General scientific and specific behavioural methodologies to test hypotheses and effectively communicate research using a range of scientific modes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 2,000 word 20 N Individual N  Poster A0 poster and presentation (must be present at poster session  for 2 hours to answer 30 N Individual N  Quiz 20 minutes (per quiz) 40 N Individual N  Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact John Hunt Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Animal Science, Testamur Major (T054) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Other Ag, Env and Related (AGEN) Zoology, Testamur Major (T029)