Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 0039 Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (WSTC Prep) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700210 Coordinator Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to improve academic English proficiency for students who wish to progress to university studies. The subject will assist students to critically read and analyse a variety of texts, and to develop their research and writing skills to produce complex texts. There is a particular focus in this subject on critique and analysis in the process of understanding and producing academic texts. In addition, the subject encourages students to develop strategies to maximize their learning and to reflect on their own learning styles. School Western Sydney The College Discipline English Language Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 0032 - English for Tertiary Study 2 (UWSCFS) LANG 0002 - Academic Communication 2 (UWSCFS) LANG 0007 - Academic English 2 (UWSC) LANG 0033 - English for Tertiary Study 2 (UWSC) LANG 0040 - Introduction to Academic Communication 2 (UWSC) LANG 0003 - Academic English (WSTC Prep) LANG 0005 - Academic English (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an ability to critically read, analyse and make meaning from academic texts.
Identify and summarise the main points of arguments.
Locate and cite arguments and evidence using the conventions of academic research.
Produce a well-structured, logical, coherent and cohesive response to writing tasks using appropriate academic language structures.
Demonstrate an emerging capacity to critically reflect on their own learning in written and oral formats. Subject Content 1. Critically reading and interpreting academic texts
2. Summarising arguments
3. Conducting academic research
4. Synthesising information from multiple sources
5. Using evidence to support an argument
6. Referencing
7. Cohesive devices in academic writing
8. Argument, counter-argument and concessions in analytical-persuasive essay writing
9. Planning, drafting and re-drafting essays
10. Delivering oral presentations and reflecting on students' own learning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Annotated Bibliography 200 words 10 N Individual N  Critical Review 500 words 20 N Individual N  Essay a.	300 words 10%
b.	1200 words 30% 40 N Individual N  Presentation a. 300 words 15%
b. 5 minutes 15% 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Gabriela Jakubowicz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Diploma in Business (7177) Diploma in Business Extended (7102) Information Systems (INFS) Language and Literature (LANG)