Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 7025 Statistical Methods in Epidemiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401176 Coordinator Haider Mannan Opens in new window Description Statistical ideas are integral to the conceptual basis of epidemiology and provide the tools needed to interpret epidemiological information and conduct epidemiological studies. Most professions in the health sciences need to be able to read and interpret statistics relating to individual and population health status and health risks, and to identify appropriate statistical methods to evaluate interventions, health policies and programs. Many public health practitioners are actively involved in surveillance, quantitative research and/or evaluation.  This subject aims to support students to reach a level of proficiency in the selection of appropriate statistical methods to address specific research questions with a given dataset, conduct the selected analysis, interpret the results appropriately and draw valid and insightful conclusions about the research question. School Medicine Discipline Epidemiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 7008 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge High school mathematics (arithmetic, formulas and algebra, reading graphs). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe epidemiological data in tabular and graphical format including the calculation and interpretation of measures of disease occurrence
Assess a disease-exposure association using appropriate hypothesis tests and calculate confidence intervals for measures of association between exposures and disease
Determine whether effect measure modification/or confounding is present in an epidemiological study
Explain how the study design determines the method of analysis
Select appropriate statistical analyses to address a given research question and carry out the analyses in statistical software
Interpret the model output, assess the model fit and test model assumptions
Critically appraise published studies by assessing study design and methods of data analysis, as well as interpret study methods, results and conclusions Subject Content 1. Use of measurement scales and implications for selection of statistical methods
2. Descriptive techniques to summarise public health data
3. Formulate a scientific question about the relationship of a response variable and predictor variable(s)
4. Use statistical software package (e.g. SAS, Stata, R)
5. Methods for analysing case-control studies (linear and logistic regression)
6. Methods for analysing cohort/longitudinal studies (Poisson regression, negative binomial regression)
7. Methods for time-to-event studies (Kaplan-Meier estimator, logrank test, Cox proportional hazards regression)
8. Inferences about model coefficients, tests of hypotheses and determination of whether interaction and/or confounding is present in epidemiological study
9. Evaluate model fits and test model assumptions
10. Interpret regression coefficients and draw appropriate conclusions from epidemiological data
7. Methods for time-to-event studies (Kaplan-Meier estimator, logrank test, Cox proportional hazards regression)
8. Inferences about model coefficients, tests of hypotheses and determination of whether interaction and/or confounding is present in epidemiological study
10. Interpret regression coefficients and draw appropriate conclusions from epidemiological data Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,000 words (incl. Summary Figures & Tables) 25 N Individual Y  Essay 1,500 words (incl. Summary Figures & Tables) 35 N Individual Y  Critical Review 3,000 words (incl. Summary Figures & Tables) 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Haider Mannan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Haider Mannan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Digital Health, Testamur Major (T089) Graduate Certificate in Epidemiology (4740) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Epidemiology (4739) Graduate Diploma in Health Science (4700) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Master of Epidemiology (4738) Master of Medicine (Allergic Diseases) (4753) Master of Science (3749) Occupational Health and Safety, Testamur Major (T032) Public Health (PUBH)