Academic Handbook Current Edition CIVL 7018 Water Treatment and Distribution Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301279 Coordinator Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window Description This subjectt focuses on the design of conventional and emerging water treatment unit processes using fundamental science and hydraulic engineering principles. The emphasis is on practical design and water quality management in the distribution system. Students will be exposed to emerging water treatment processes and its applications through research and practical work. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Water and Sanitary Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply the principles of water treatment processes.
Design the elements of the water treatment units in more detail with appropriate dimensions.
Design water treatment processes for different applications.
Explain the emerging treatment processes through research project.
Design water treatment processes to obtain distribution systems goals.
Successfully manage selected quality issues in the distribution system. 
Conceptually design the stormwater treatment systems. Subject Content Introduction to source water quality  
Conventional water treatment processes 
Water quality management in the distribution system 
Distribution system issues 
Emerging and advanced water treatment processes 
Disposal/reuse of water treatment plant sludge. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 15-20 pages 35 N Individual N  Report 3,000 words 25 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sathaa Arumugam Sathasivan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil Engineering (CIVL) Civil and Environmental, Testamur Major (T111) Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Environmental, Testamur Major (T058) Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749)