Academic Handbook Current Edition INFS 3012 Information Systems Deployment and Management Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300572 Coordinator Ana Hol Opens in new window Description This subject provides a detailed overview of system implementation and deployment stages taking into consideration the steps that are necessary to place a newly developed system into production. In this subject students learn the skills required for accurate requirements gathering, timely and effective system development, and successful implementation that would result in effective system performance. For this to be achieved successfully this subject also addresses the importance of project management skills. The subject also highlights the issues of transition processes after the development phase, the activities required in systems support and maintenance in the system's operational stage. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Systems Analysis and Design Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 1005 AND
INFS 1006 OR
COMP 1005 AND
DESN 1021 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5900 Enterprise Information Management Assumed Knowledge A general understanding of various Information Systems in the eBusiness environment - familiarity with information system development processes. Learning Outcomes Explain how system deployment fits within the system development life cycle.
Develop a plan for system deployment reflecting the organisational culture and business processes.
Evaluate deployment strategies in terms of selecting a suitable one the specific business problem.
Apply project management skills and ensure deployment and transitioning schedules are followed.
Describe what needs to be considered, so that system users and customers receive appropriate training.
Assess possible risks and develop backup plans and strategies.
Analyse the change management requirements for implementing and managing a successful system.
Critically analyse proposed Information Systems solutions and identify possible improvements. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Self-Assessment 3 minutes (video)
 15 N Individual Y  Presentation 25 minutes 25 N Group Y  Critical Review 150 words (per post)
 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Antoinette Cevenini Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ana Hol Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information Systems (3687) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced (3688) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Business (3745) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Business (3744) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Diploma in Information and Communications Technology / Bachelor of Information Systems (6040) Information Systems (INFS) Mobile Application Development (for Non-Computing Students only), Minor (0207) Mobile Computing, Major (0146) Mobile Computing, Minor (0146)