Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 2005 Cyber Security and Behaviour Research Project Credit Points 40 Legacy Code 102704 Coordinator Alana Maurushat Opens in new window Description This is a 40 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (20 credit points in each term). This subject comprises the research pathway of the Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour. Students will undertake a major research project in the field of behavioural cyber security. The specifics of the project will be coordinated between the student and the research supervisor at Western, which is undertaken over two semesters. Students should firstly discuss their proposed research project with the research supervisor, as it may require prior approval by the University's Ethics Committee depending on the research topic chosen. In the first semester, students plan their research, complete a literature review and propose the project plan to a panel of experts. By the end of the second semester students will have completed their thesis by research and will defend that thesis to a panel of experts. As such, students will have contributed to research in the field of cyber security and behaviour which prepares them for further studies towards a Masters or PhD qualification. School Social Sciences Discipline Security Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1837 - Bachelor of Cyber Security and Behaviour and have successfully completed 140 credit points Assumed Knowledge An understanding of experimental design and research. Learning Outcomes Formulate a comprehensive proposal for a high level independent research project.
Demonstrate an understanding of research methodology through an analysis of empirical data.
Construct a reasoned academic argument to demonstrate critical thinking skills in the production of a coherent and substantiated thesis.
Defend the findings of the research at a professional standard to an academic audience. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 30 minutes 15 N Individual Y  Thesis 6,000 - 8,000 words 45 Y Individual Y  Presentation 60 minutes 10 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Other information Technology (INFO)