Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 2019 Forensic and Environmental Analysis Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300843 Coordinator Andrew Shalliker Opens in new window Description This subject extends the student's knowledge and experience of analytical techniques by applying them to forensic investigations and analysis in the environmental and food sciences. It will provide an understanding of the chemical and physical principles underlying the use of instrumentation in chemical analysis. Topics include principles of spectroscopic techniques, separation methods; sample collection and storage; presumptive testing; modern chemical instrumentation for gas and liquid chromatography; atomic spectroscopy; mass spectroscopy; x-ray methods and spectroscopic methods. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) CHEM 1008 - Introductory Chemistry Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points Assumed Knowledge An understanding and competence with basic chemical principles including SI units, chemical symbols, formulas and equations, stoichiometry, the mole concept, equilibria, acids and bases, pH and electrochemistry. Introductory statistics – mean, standard deviation, distributions, linear regression. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a familiarity with a range of instrumental analytical techniques that are relevant to forensic and environmental investigations.
Describe the underlying chemical principles of chromatography including the basic theory and practical applications.
Show an understanding of instrumental analysis, the factors which govern its application in real-world situations and the limitations and interferences of specific techniques.
Explain how presumptive tests are used in forensic and environmental analyses.
Discuss the concepts in designing experiments for analysing forensic, environmental and food samples including principles of sampling and sample preparation.
Conduct instrumental investigations to determine concentrations of specific analytes relevant to either a forensic or environmental analysis.
Perform result analysis of experimental data including error calculation by applying relevant statistics. analyse and graph data and draw appropriate conclusions from data.
Record and communicate the results of their investigations demonstrating awareness of the conventions of scientific writing and graphical presentations. Subject Content 1. Introduction to instrumental analysis - comparison with wet chemical methods
2. Basic principles of chromatography - high performance liquid chromatography, gas chromatography
3. Experimental design, sampling, sampling techniques, sample preparation
4. Atomic spectroscopy - atomic absorption, atomic emission, ICP
5. Spectroscopic techniques - UV/visible, IR spectroscopy
6. Mass spectrometry
7. Statistical methods relevant to linear regression based analytical methods
8. Presumptive testing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 6 practicals (4 hours in duration), 3 workshops (2 hours in duration) 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Participation Weekly 10 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Andrew Shalliker Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Advanced Medical Science (3758) Bachelor of Advanced Science (3757) Bachelor of Medical Science (3755) Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Bachelor of Science (3754) Bachelor of Science (Pathway to Teaching Primary/Secondary) (3756) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts (3763) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Business (4748) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of International Studies (3764) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Chemical Sciences (CHEM) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Medical Science (6042) Diploma in Science/Bachelor of Science (6043) Forensic Science, Testamur Major (T049) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)