Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 3014 Corporate Governance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200657 Coordinator Rangika Palliyaarachchi Opens in new window Description The role of corporations in society has become increasingly significant in shaping economic, social, and environmental outcomes. In such a context, understanding the concept of corporate governance is imperative in any attempt at controlling corporations and their behaviour. Through an interdisciplinary approach, this subject explores the place and role of the modern for-profit business corporation in advanced and emerging economies. It examines the public and private roles of corporations, their external and internal orientation, and issues relating to their accountability, responsibility, and transparency. The students will engage in critical analysis of the contemporary issues in the governance of corporations within the broad theoretical framework of corporate governance.  

This subject can be taught either in a combination of onshore in Australia and offshore in a host country, or solely onshore in Australia. Students enrolled in the subject with an offshore component must be available to travel for two weeks to the host country.  When no host country is available, this subject may be delivered wholly onshore (in Australia) only.  Students will be advised whether there is an offshore component of study and the availability of a host country in advance of opportunities to enrol.  When delivered offshore in a host country the teaching materials and tutorial activities will incorporate host country-specific issues and activities relevant to the topics covered in the subject.   Offshore delivery integrated with host country specific delivery provides the students with an immersive international and comparative experience, which will enhance their ability critically to engage with Australian and international law relevant to corporate governance. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 3045 OR
LAWS 2010 Equivalent Subjects LAWS 3026 - Governance Restrictions When the subject is delivered wholly onshore (in Australia, at WSU campuses), no enrolment restrictions apply, but the students must have completed the relevant pre-requisite subjects.  When the subject is delivered offshore, the subject is not available for self-select enrolment. Intake in the subject will be restricted to expressions of interest. GPA and progression in the program will be considered, and the pre-requisites must be met. Students must be able to travel to the offshore destination for a specified period of 2 weeks (The dates for the term of offer will be made available to students through the School of Law's regular communication channels). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the theory, policy, principles and frameworks of corporate governance in Australia and globally.


Discuss the structure and relationship between the board of directors, managers, shareholders, employees and other constituencies.


Analyse emerging and contemporary issues in the governance of the modern corporation.


Communicate complex legal concepts and governance issues to diverse audiences.


Engage in creative problem-solving using legal and non-legal sources. Examine the theory, policy, principles and frameworks of corporate governance in Australia and globally. Discuss the structure and relationship between the board of directors, managers, shareholders, employees and other constituencies. Analyse emerging and contemporary issues in the governance of the modern corporation. Communicate complex legal concepts and governance issues to diverse audiences. Engage in creative problem-solving using legal and non-legal sources. Subject Content Key themes, theories, and models of contemporary corporate governance.
Overview of the current framework of corporate governance in Australia and globally.  
Emerging and contemporary issues of governance of the modern corporation.
The governance of corporations in the broader context of the social, economic, and environmental responsibilities of corporations. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Students must meet any visa and medical requirements relevant for host country when subject is delivered offshore. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Ongoing 10 N Individual N  Reflection Ongoing 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 2000 words 40 N Individual N  Professional Task Multi-media Project 30 N Group N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (2537) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2830) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (2501) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2828) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (2502) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2829) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (2538) Business Regulation, Governance and Compliance, Major (0165) Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2827) Law (LAWS) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833) ​Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2831)