Academic Handbook Current Edition VISU 2003 From Ochre to Acrylics to New Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101755 Coordinator Madison Shakespeare Opens in new window Description This subject examines the emergence of the Indigenous Australian visual arts movement. It will provide students with a body of knowledge which explores the transition of art-making as it emerged from an historical cultural practice: from ochre to acrylics to new technologies. In examining the Indigenous visual arts movement beginning with the Papunya Tula artists, students will gain an insight into the significant contribution urban and regional Indigenous artists make to the Australian economy and culture. Students will have the exciting opportunity to participate in site visits and engage with a number of Indigenous visual artists. This subject is available to all Undergraduate students who have open electives. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Visual Arts And Crafts Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: outline the Indigenous visual art movement beginning with the Papunya Tula artists;
identify different contemporary Indigenous visual artistic styles;
differentiate between what is culturally symbolic and what is contemporary visual art form;
Examine the way in which Indigenous visual artists are often expected to produce stereotypical works;
explore new creative forms in telling their own story. Subject Content Historical overview of the emergence of the Indigenous Australian visual arts movement
Introduction to cultural symbolism and meaning in contemporary visual art form
Overview of the different Indigenous visual artistic styles
Understanding of the politics of representation as it relates to Indigenous visual artists
Understanding of the politics of identity/?faboriginality?f/?findigeniety?f
Understanding of the politics of collectors and collections
Understanding of working in creative partnership with Indigenous visual artists Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1000 words 25 N Individual Y  Presentation 1000 words
(for the written part)

10 minutes
(for Group  Presentation)
 35 N Group/Individual Y  Professional Task 2000 words 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Madison Shakespeare Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Advanced Manufacturing, Testamur Major (T126) Bachelor of Design and Technology (3729) Bachelor of Industrial Design (3730) Bachelor of Industrial Design (Honours) (3731) Indigenous Australian Studies, Major (0015) Indigenous Australian Studies, Minor (0015) Materials Engineering, Testamur Major (T128) Sustainability Engineering, Testamur Major (T129) Visual Arts and Crafts (VISU)