Academic Handbook Current Edition JUST 0004 Introduction to the Australian Legal System (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900083 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to develop an understanding of the Australian legal system for students whose courses involve law subjects relevant to their area of study, such as Business, Construction, Policing and Criminology. Students will investigate the role of the Australian legal system in contemporary society, and explore its relevance to their chosen career path through project-based assessments. The subject will also help students develop the language and communication skills necessary for further tertiary study. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Legal Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects JUST 0003 - Introduction to the Australian Legal System (WSTC Prep)
JUST 0005 - Introduction to the Australian Legal System – Fast Track (UWSC) Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and use key legal terminology appropriately.
Demonstrate an understanding of key legal concepts, the role of law in society and its impact upon Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Explain the relevance of the Australian legal system to their chosen career path.
Demonstrate effective written communication skills.
Observe and report on the operation of Australian courts.
Demonstrate skills in legal problem solving. Subject Content 1. The concept of law and the development of Australia's legal system.
2. The basic composition of the Australian legal system and introduction to key legal terms.
3. The function and operation of Australian courts.
4. The operation and practical relevance of major areas of law (including criminal/civil law, contract law, tort law and international law). Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 40 minutes per quiz 40 N Individual N  Case Study 1000 words 25 N Individual N  Report 1250 words 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Justice and Law Enforcement (JUST)