Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3021 Chinese 302 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100063 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject further develops the language skills and cultural understanding students already have or have acquired through Chinese 101-301, with an emphasis on oral expression, reading, writing and research skills. It enhances students' ability to interact in both spoken and written Chinese in various situations and ability to research and express their views on Chinese social and cultural issues. Authentic materials are used as much as possible in order to deepen students' understanding of the Chinese language, culture and society, and improve their ability to interact in various settings. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Chinese 301 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes Further improve their knowledge of Chines grammar and their ability to apply it to a range of spoken and written discourse
Further develop their listening skills and ability to express themselves clearly and coherently on general as well as specific topics
Further develop their reading and writing skills for different purposes
Further develop their ability to use Chinese cohesive devices and discourse strategies in both speaking and writing
Further develop their ability to appreciate major speech registers in the language and express themselves appropriately in different situations
Further develop their understanding of aspects of Chinese culture and contemporary Chinese society
Further develop their research and critical-thinking skills and ability to use such skills to investigate Chinese cultural or social issues and express their opinions Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation A combination of oral, aural or written work to be determined according to student learning needs from year to year (eg. a presentation and discussion, and an aural test) 30 N Individual Y  Essay approximately 1,500 to 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam Supervised assessment tasks (eg. An in-class examination)  40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)