Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7023 Pelvic Anatomy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401061 Coordinator Harry Merkur Opens in new window Description This is an alternate subject in the Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery and Year 1 of the Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) course.  The student is expected to attain an advanced understanding and knowledge of the Anatomy of the Female Pelvis. The eventual aim is to become a competent surgeon in this field.  Detailed Pelvic Anatomy is a vital component required to attain the skills necessary for the performance of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery. Knowledge of the normal versus the abnormal anatomy is required for the correct identification of pelvic structures. When abnormal features are present caused by pathological changes, the student is expected to know how to recognise the distortion caused, thus paving the way to try and normalise the anatomy as best as possible.   The student should choose a topic relevant to the operations observed and learned. An analysis of the anatomy important to the topic should be presented in a detailed fashion. Evidence for any conclusions drawn or reflections made should be provided from a review of the literature.  An important aspect of detailed knowledge of Pelvic Anatomy is crucial in the avoidance or detection and management of complications at surgery. School Medicine Discipline Obstetrics and Gynaecology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4766 Graduate Diploma of Advanced Gynaecological Surgery or 4770 Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) or 4690 Master of Surgery in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery Assumed Knowledge All students are expected to have a knowledge base commensurate with a level of a Trainee or Specialist in Obstetrics & Gynaecology (RANZCOG or other accredited college) with satisfactory completion of RANZCOG written examination as per enrolment restrictions. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse aspects of pelvic anatomy relevant to the performance of advanced gynaecological surgery
Assess the distortion of anatomy that occurs with pathology
Critique surgical techniques to manage pathology appropriately
Evaluate surgical anatomy and landmarks required to facilitate safe gynaecological surgery and avoid inadvertent surgical injury
Apply reflective and evidence based approaches with respect to pelvic anatomy to enhance professional practice Subject Content 1. Detail aspects of anatomy of the female pelvis relevant to Advanced Gynaecological Surgery
2. Appreciation of the distortion of anatomy that occurs with pathology
3. Spatial awareness required for the location of important anatomical structures during gynaecological surgery
4. Anatomical landmarks which are key to performing advanced gynaecological surgical procedures
5. Surgical anatomy to avoid complications at gynaecological surgery Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Total 5,000 words: 1a. Literature Review 4,000 words (SLOs 1, 3, 4); 1b. Reflection ~1,000 words (SLOs 2, 5) 100 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harry Merkur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Advanced Gynaecological Surgery (4766) Master of Surgery (Advanced Gynaecological Surgery) (4770) Medical Studies (MEDI)