Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3049 Home and Away: Ethnicity and Migration in Australia Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101611 Coordinator Jennifer Cheng Opens in new window Description Using contemporary and historical sociological accounts of migration and ethnicity, this subject analyses the social, cultural and economic impact of international migration, with specific reference to Australia. It further introduces students to major sociological issues, both theoretical and empirical, relating to the construction of migrant groups within settler societies through interviews and qualitative analysis. Key concerns of the subject include the position of indigenous peoples, race and racism, ethnic identity, and ethnic conflict and cooperation in society. School Social Sciences Discipline Sociology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1305 - Sociology of Ethnicity and Migration Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Upon completion of this subject students will be able to:
Demonstrate an understanding of the significance of migration in the formation of Australian class structures and cultures.
Critically assess the linkages between ethnic identity construction and other forms of identity in Australia.
Understand, and be able to demonstrate the specific issues and problems involved in conducting sociological research in the area of migration and ethnicity.
Locate the sociology of migration and ethnic formation in the broader context of social transformation in the world system and the international division of labour.
Identify and describe the significance of indigenous peoples in the construction of settler societies like Australia. Subject Content History of population movements
Concepts of race and ethnicity
Indigenous peoples
Theories of migration
Ethnicity and the nation-state
Demographic characteristics of Australian society
Multiculturalism in Australia
Whiteness and ethnicity
Transnationalism and new forms of migration
Refugees and asylum seekers in Australia
Ethnicity and Violence Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Literature Review 750 words 25 N Individual Y  Report 1,250 words  40 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 words 35 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Cheng Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (1735) Diploma in Social Science (Humanitarian and Development Studies) (exit only) (1917) Diploma in Social Science/Bachelor of Humanitarian and Development Studies (6027) Migration and Global Change, Minor (0314) Social Research, Minor (0259) Sociology, Major (0030) Sociology, Minor (0030) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)