Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3026 Chinese 307: The Cultural Context of China Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100067 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject provides a brief overview of Chinese culture and examines the cultural interchanges of which it has been a part throughout history. Students will analyse the effects of these cultural contacts, both positive and negative. They will also evaluate and critique relevant cultural issues, from a comparative perspective. This process will increase students' understanding of the cultural identity of China, and it will also enable them to appreciate the importance of outside cultural influences, thereby reinforcing an open and mature attitude towards multiculturalism. The subject will be conducted in Chinese. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Assumed Knowledge Chinese 204 or equivalent. Learning Outcomes demonstrate understanding of the essence of Chinese traditional culture and Chinese cultural identity;
identify the cultural exchanges that have taken place between Chinese and other peoples;
explain the impact of Chinese culture on other cultures and its continuing relevance to the contemporary world;
demonstrate an understanding of how other cultures have affected Chinese culture, up to the present;
assess cultural contact situations with an open and mature attitude towards multiculturalism;
apply sound analytical and critical thinking skills while dealing with cultural issues. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 10-15 minutes (including discussion) 30 N Individual N  Essay 1500-2000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)