Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 7003 Music Therapy Method Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100910 Coordinator Allison Fuller Opens in new window Description In 2023, this subject replaced by PERF 6001 - Music Therapy Foundations & Approaches. Music Therapy Method provides a background to the historical development and theoretical underpinnings of music therapy, with focus on a broad range of music therapy approaches and orientations including Culture-Centred Music Therapy and Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy. Human development through the lifespan is studied, along with an overview of disability and disorders. The fundamental principles of self-care and supervision for music therapy practitioners and students are introduced within this subject and continued in later subjects of the Master of Creative Music Therapy course. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1650 Master of Creative Music Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Create professional presentations, use critical thinking skills, and engage in active learning methods within the music therapy context.
Describe the historical development of music therapy as a profession and demonstrate an understanding of the role of the Australian Music Therapy Association (AMTA).
Describe and explain the main tenets of at least 3 music therapy approaches/orientations.
Evaluate relevant therapeutic and educational theories in relation to the cognitive, physical, social, emotional and spiritual domains of the person in relation to music therapy practice.
Identify key issues relating to people with a disability in Australia and how this affects the delivery of music therapy.
Articulate the fundamental principles of self-care and supervision for music therapy practitioners and students. Subject Content Music Therapy Overview: Historical perspective, Areas of practice, Australian Music Therapy Association (AMTA) history and purpose.
Human Development Overview: Lifespan development perspectives, including theories of learning and moral reasoning.
Disability and Disorders Overview: Diagnostic and statistical manual V (DSMV), National disability insurance scheme (NDIS), Introduction to therapeutic interventions across the lifespan.
Music Therapy Approaches and Orientations: Overview of music therapy approaches and orientations, underpinnings & methods including Developmental Music Therapy, Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy, Vocal Approaches, Culture-Centred Music Therapy, Neurologic Music Therapy, and Family-Centred Music Therapy.
Professional issues: Self-Care and supervision for music therapy students and practitioners across their career. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer Minimum of 300 words on 10 out of 12 weeks (3000 words in total) 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 5 min oral-visual presentation + 5 mins questions and changeover 30 N Individual Y  Essay 3,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Participation Attendance at a minimum of 11 lectorials across the semester S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Creative Music Therapy (1650) Performing Arts (PERF)