Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7007 Advanced Design Communication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301239 Coordinator Aso Haji Rasouli Opens in new window Description Advanced Design Communication is a core architecture seminar in the Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) program that will explore contemporary methods of design generation and visualisation, representation techniques, and collaboration tools, including but not limited to digital fabrication, computational and algorithmic design, simulation, virtual and augmented reality, building information modelling, parametric design, and scripting.  Students will undertake case studies from the community of practice and precedents in this disciplinary domain, including an investigation of how emerging technologies are used in existing professional settings locally and internationally.  Students will develop their own design-based enquiry to apply knowledge and skills acquired in the seminar that result in a project and report of their work. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3761 Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Use digital tools and workflows from computation to fabrication as a way to conceive, test, and propose architectural and construction projects.
Evaluate and propose the use of computational techniques that enable specific and contingent outcomes of each project scenario.
Explore and apply ordering, sequencing and modelling of three-dimensional form and spatial content.
Apply manual and digital graphic techniques and modelling to describe three- dimensional form and spatial relationships.
Draw upon the history and theory of digital techniques in architectural design and representation. Subject Content 1. Contemporary trends and emerging design communication technologies
2. Digital fabrication and design for manufacture
3. Building information modelling
4. Visualisation, simulation, rendering, virtual reality and augmented reality
5. Digital collaboration technologies and impacts upon professional/industry delivery strategies and enterprises Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Drawings and/or models and 300 words 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 20 N Group N  Applied Project Drawings and/or models 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 500 words and graphic compendium 10 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Aso Haji Rasouli Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761)