Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 1033 Concepts in Human Physiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301254 Coordinator Sabine Piller Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the core concepts and terminology necessary to provide a basic understanding of the physiological responses of the human body using relevant examples. These include the processes of homeostasis, cell-cell interactions and the physical and chemical transport processes that are required to carry out integrated functions. Students will explore these key physiological concepts through practical hands-on experiments and in interactive group work in prac and tutorial classes, respectively. The subject provides the foundation to study the physiology of human organ systems. School Science Discipline Medical Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 1009 NATS 1021 Incompatible Subjects BIOS 1025 Introduction to Physiology
BIOS 1022 Introduction to Human Biology Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the component parts of a cell and how cell interactions occur
Recognise that all physiological systems are interdependent
Define the concept of homeostasis and explain how different mechanisms regulate its function
Explain physical, chemical and electrical principles of cell communication
Recognise structure and function relationships
Collect and interpret data from practical classes investigating physiological principles Subject Content 1.Cell function, membranes, communication and their interdependence
2.Information flow: a. Physical principals of physiology: pressure driven (flow, viscosity and resistance) and electrically driven (force, potential, and currents) b. Chemical principles of physiology: energy, intermolecular forces, gradients and kinetics
3.Homeostasis
4.Interpretation of physiological data Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    5 x tutorial worksheets 30 minutes each 40 N Individual   3 x Practical Quizzes 15 minutes each 30 N Individual   Multiple choice and/or short answer quizzes x2 30 minutes each 30 Y Individual Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)