Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 2009 Contemporary Childhoods Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102048 Coordinator Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window Description In this subject students will engage in an exploration of what it means to be a child in a postmodern world and how different theoretical approaches influence ways of understanding children’s lives. Alongside questions of how gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity, students will explore the notion of a child’s subjectivity. A child’s subjectivity is the conscious and unconscious thoughts and emotions of the child, their sense of self, their body and their way of understanding their relationship to the world. Building on this knowledge, students will also explore the four key child-environment identities of the physical child, the social child, the learning child and the natural child and by analysing a variety of scholarly and non-scholarly texts around childhood, children’s bodies and behaviour will reflect on a child’s individuality and emerging identity. This subject is included in the Foundation Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Early Childhood Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects TEAC 2012 - Contemporary Perspectives of Childhoods TEAC 2010 Contemporary Childhoods (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Investigate diverse texts, images, practices and constructions of what it means to be a child in contemporary society.
Discuss the social meaning of childhood including the historical, social and political factors and how they have influenced changing views of children and childhood.
Explain how different theoretical perspectives have positioned children and childhood as a social construction.
Identify the ways in which gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion are constituted through a child’s identity and the significance of this on everyday lived experiences.
Examine how social, institutional and cultural constructions of childhood play a role in shaping children’s identities, subjectivities and everyday lives.
Examine the ways in which children negotiate and construct their identities in contexts of diversity and difference.
Describe how children’s rights and responsibilities are enacted by children and adults. 
Describe how child-environment identity is connected to place, space, location and time. Subject Content Who is, and what does it mean to be a child in a postmodern world? 
Analysis of texts, images and constructions about ‘the child’.
Introduction to contemporary national and international theories and philosophies related to the child.
Significance of gender, sexuality, ethnicity, 'race', language, class, ability and religion and how they are constituted through a child’s identity and everyday lived experiences.
Questions of subjectivity and a child’s sense of self, body, and relationship to the world.
Children’s negotiation of identity and difference in a globalised world.
Rights and responsibilities of the child. 
Child-environment identity and connections to place, space, location and time through encounters with tangible social-cultural artefacts such as toys, homes, landscapes, animals, digital technology.
Constructions of diversity and difference in education and community settings. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation  10 N Individual N  Reflection 1,200 words 45 N Individual N  Essay 1,200 words 45 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Katina Dimoulias Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Associate Degree in Early Years Education (exit only) (1927) Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth - 5/Birth - 12) (1708) Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) (1926) Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Bachelor of Education (Secondary) (1939) Childhood Studies, Major (0330) Childhood Studies, Minor (0330) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Pathway to Teaching Birth-5/Birth-12) (6017) Education Studies (Birth - 5/Birth - 12), Major (0156) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Secondary Education, Major (0272) Teacher Education (TEAC)