Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 2034 Geometric Design of Roads (WSTC AssocD) Credit Points 10 Coordinator Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window Description This is an introductory subject covering the design of dimensions and configurations of the visible features of a roadway. It will provide students with an understanding of pavement widths, horizontal and vertical alignment, slopes channelization, intersections and other features that can significantly affect the operations, safety, and capacity of the roadway network. 
This subject is designed in collaboration with Transport for NSW. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Transport Engineering Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MATH1010 Fundamentals for Engineering Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled at The College in 7022 Associate Degree in Engineering Learning Outcomes Explain highway terminology and concepts of geometric design of roads.
Evaluate the various social, technical and environmental aspects involved with road geometry design.
Analyse the factors influencing geometric roads design and link these to safety.
Perform basic calculations related to road geometry design and traffic flow.  
Explain the methods of design including horizontal and vertical alignment design and design of cross-sections as well as earthwork volume calculations. Subject Content Introduction
Fundamental Considerations
Speed Parameters
Cross-section
Sight Distance
Horizontal Alignment
Vertical Alignment
Coordination of Horizontal and Vertical Alignment
Intersections and Auxiliary Lanes
Bridge Considerations Design parameters include: road classification; design speeds; design vehicles; alignment controls; cross-section components, including travel lanes, shoulders and verges; and provisions for public transport and cyclists. Speed parameters include: operating speed, desired speed and design speed; and their relationship with each other. Horizontal and vertical alignments (include development and application of: circular curves; superelevation; grades; vertical curves; procedures for the grading of a road alignment; and determination of sight distances across vertical curves. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Online Quizzes 30 min each 15 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 Hour 30 N Individual N  Applied Project Draft Report with 1500 words, including diagrams 25 N Individual N  Applied Project Final Report with 1500 words, including diagrams 30 N Individual N Teaching Periods Quarter 4 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct Online Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) Online Subject Contact Abbas Ranjbar Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Civil, Testamur Major (T033) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)