Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 0002 Economics (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 900030 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to familiarise students with some of the basic concepts and relationships of the discipline.  It was developed to prepare students for undergraduate study in the academic discipline area of commerce/business and educate students as to the crucial role economic decisions have in society and how economic problems and issues dominate media and politics.  By understanding Economics, students are empowered to participate effectively and knowledgeably in economic debate. School Western Sydney The College Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 0 Preparatory subject Equivalent Subjects ECON 0001 - Economics (WSTC Prep) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define and explain basic economic concepts and relationships
Interpret economic information presented in a variety of forms: text, graphs, statistics, illustrations, diagrams
Integrate descriptive economics, economic theory and applied economics
Select and organise economic information from a variety of sources for relevance and reliability
Describe trends in Australia's economic performance and discuss contemporary issues affecting this trend
Explain the operation of government micro and macro-economic policies Subject Content 1. Economic Concepts and Systems
(including economic growth and its measurement) Types of economic systems.
2. The Circular Flow and Economic Fluctuations
The circular flow of income, national income, expenditure and income.
3. The Price Mechanism
Demand, supply and equilibrium, price elasticity.
4. Market Structures
Features of market structures and the Australian capitalist economy, contemporary market capitalism, government market intervention in the Australian economy.
5. The Australian Financial System and Money
Financial institutions, money and interest, financial deregulation, monetary policy.
6. Economic Policies
Macroeconomic management in Australia, fiscal policy, monetary policy (brief review), prices + incomes policy and external policy, the 'Policy Mix'
7. Australia in the International Economy and contemporary issues Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Intra-session Exam 1 hour 15 N Individual Y  Quiz 1 1/2 hours 20 N Individual Y  Essay 500 words 15 N Individual Y  Presentation 10 minutes 10 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Economics and Econometrics (ECON)