Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1014 Music Production Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102558 Coordinator Andrew Milne Opens in new window Description This subject presents an overview of the basic concepts and applications of electronic and digital music production technology in current music and media arts practice. Students will learn the fundamentals of musical acoustics, stereo recording and mixing techniques, and they will be introduced to MIDI systems and sequencing. Technical concepts are contextualised within a survey of current music production practice. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 1005 - Digital Musics 1 Musical Contexts PERF 1009 - Introduction to Sound Technologies Restrictions Available places limited by technological infrastructure. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply basic acoustic terminology in real world, practical music scenarios.
Identify and define basic electroacoustic and computer technology.
Conduct and evaluate stereo audio recordings.
Operate computer-based MIDI and audio mixing systems.
Operate basic live music production and audio systems.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: Participate meaningfully in Art of Sound activities and projects, working with students across the Music program to develop collaborative, technical and performance skills. Subject Content 1. Practical demonstrations and theory of the physical properties and perception of sound.
2. Theory and practice of using digital audio workstations to compose, record, and mix music.
3. Basic theory and practice of microphones and microphone technique.
4. Theory and practice of mixing for live performances. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1–2 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Quiz 5 minutes per quiz, 8 quizzes 30 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3 minutes 40 N Individual Y  Participation n/a S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Andrew Milne Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1842) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1840) Bachelor of Creative Industries (1838) Bachelor of Design/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1839) Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music for Primary Teaching, Minor (0210) Musicology, Major (0025) Performing Arts (PERF) Sound Production, Minor (0242)