Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 1032 Writing Ecologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101920 Coordinator Milissa Deitz Opens in new window Description In Autumn 2024, this subject is replaced by COMM 1044 Professional Communication. This subject introduces students to a set of theories and strategies for exploring storytelling in networked environments and the way social and cultural experiences continue to shape and inform the way we read, write and communicate. Grounded in contexts key to Communication Arts practice, the subject explores what it means to be digitally literate, the difference between newer and older storytelling environments, and the way networked technologies have re-shaped contemporary reading/writing practices. Students will complete a range of analytical and creative tasks that aim to build understanding of the dynamic nature of communication while further developing academic research and writing skills. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0212 - Writing as Communication COMM 1034 - Writing as Communication COMM 1002 - Approaches to Communication COMM 1033 - Writing Ecologies (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate English language writing and research skills.
Apply a range of theories of writing and storytelling in analyses of critical and creative contexts.
Employ a variety of genres and forms of writing and storytelling, particularly in networked environments.
Engage in a writing research practice in response to a set topic or brief.
Demonstrate an ability to identify the workings of culture within networked media writing practices.
Demonstrate an applied understanding of media ethics as they apply to networked media environments. Subject Content Histories of reading, writing and human communication
Communication, affect and emotion
Storytelling as a community of practice
Networked media: community, collaboration and convergence
Introduction to media ethics
Writing for social change Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz Equivalent 100 words each 25 N Individual Y  Short Answer 400 Words 10 N Individual Y  Essay 1,000 Words 25 N Individual Y  Applied Project Creative work: 1000 words equivalent Reflection: 500 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Vietnam Session 2 (2024) Vietnam On-site Subject Contact Milissa Deitz Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication (1696) Communication and Media (COMM)