Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 7010 Nutrition Promotion Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301185 Coordinator Arua Kalu Opens in new window Description This subject aims to introduce students to the principles and practices of nutrition and health promotion, for use in primary and secondary prevention.  Students will learn and critically appraise all aspects of the program planning cycle, from needs assessment to evaluation.  Students will develop their capabilities to design initiatives that are responsive to, and contribute to, the community and public health nutrition evidence base.  Students will acquire knowledge related to communication, food and social marketing, nutrition education, and nutrition and behaviour change theories; and learn how to translate this into effective nutrition promotion initiatives that aim to influence food choice, intake, supply and/or access.  Lastly, students will learn to work in, and/or manage, multi-disciplinary teams and work with key stakeholders.  Negotiation and influencing skills, together with capacity building skills, to guide and upskill individuals and groups, will be developed for the purpose of improving the nutritional status of groups. School Science Discipline Nutrition and Dietetics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Undergraduate knowledge of human nutrition, including nutrition science, life cycle nutrition, and the relationship between diet and disease. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply behaviour change theories to promote nutrition for individuals and populations.
Critique nutrition promotion initiatives, and food and social marketing techniques, in Australia and globally, that aim to influence food choice, intake, supply and/or access.
Apply program planning skills, models and principles to develop nutrition promotion programs addressing community and public health nutrition priorities.
Apply suitable frameworks and education skills to engage communities and build capacity for individuals and groups.
Demonstrate professional skills required to conduct successful nutrition promotion practices, such as interpersonal and counselling skills, negotiation and influencing skills, project management, and the ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships within multi-disciplinary teams and with key stakeholders.
Communicate professionally and effectively in verbal and written formats in a culturally sensitive manner. Subject Content 1. Theories and evidence relevant to nutrition promotion, including:
i. Behaviour change theories
ii. Social and food marketing techniques
iii. Other theories and evidence related to the drivers of food choice
iv. Communication styles and modes
v. Nutrition education
2. The principles, models, and practices for planning successful programs, services and/or strategies:
i. Key stages, for example, conducting a needs assessment, designing and planning a program/strategy/intervention/service, identifying implementation challenges and solutions, and conducting process and outcome evaluation
ii. Logistical considerations
iii. Negotiating, influencing, and developing/maintaining effective working relationships with(in), multi-disciplinary teams and key stakeholders
iv. Capacity building
3. The design of effective nutrition promotion programs and strategies that aim to influence food choice, intake, supply and/or access, and are responsive to, and/or contribute to, the community and public health nutrition evidence base. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 2 hours 30 N Individual N  Report Proposal: 100 words +/- 10%, Draft: 300 words +/- 10%, Final Report: 3000 words +/- 10% 50 N Individual N  Presentation 20 minutes 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Hawkesbury On-site Subject Contact Arua Kalu Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Science (exit only) (3776) Graduate Diploma in Science (exit only) (3777) Master of Science (3749) Other Health (HLTH) Public Health Nutrition, Testamur Major (T068)