Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 2013 Health Variations 2 - Chronic Illness and Disability Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401209 Coordinator Anne Marks Opens in new window Description This subject will be replaced from Spring 2022 by 401444 Health Variations 2 - Chronic Conditions and Disability. This subject explores the concepts of chronicity, disability, habilitation and rehabilitation in relation to chronic conditions, functional and intellectual disabilities and their implications for nursing practice. The relevance of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) to primary health care is the core philosophy of the subject. National Health Priority case studies drawn from across the lifespan will provide a focus for exploring pathophysiology, pharmacological interventions and nursing care related to chronic conditions of the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems. In addition, the nursing role in supporting those with physical and intellectual disability will be examined. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects NURS 2011 Health Variations 2 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing Graduate Entry program or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online. Students must be enrolled in 4780 to enrol in WSU Online Campus subjects. Assumed Knowledge Primary health care, foundational knowledge of human biological sciences including human body systems, basic concepts in pharmacology and pathophysiology and the National Health Priorities and the relationship to nursing practice. Learning Outcomes Explain the causes, pathophysiology, clinical manifestations and diagnostic procedures for common chronic illnesses related to the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems.
Examine safe, appropriate and responsive quality nursing practices related to the administration of pharmacological interventions for chronic conditions affecting the endocrine, neurological and respiratory body systems.
Develop evidence-based rationales for safe, person-centred nursing practice to people with chronic illness and disability.
Apply critical thinking frameworks to analyse the impact of chronic illness and disability on the individual, family, caregivers and the health care system, and develop a plan for nursing practice.
Demonstrate an understanding of the principles of habilitation, rehabilitation, chronicity and disability and the implications for nursing practice. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online Quiz - 20 multiple choice questions 30 minutes 10 N Individual   Case Study 1,000 words 40 N Individual   Final Exam - Online 1 hour 50 N Individual Structures that include subject Bachelor of Nursing (4691) Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online (4780) Nursing (NURS)