Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 4004 Radio and Satellite Communication Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300489 Coordinator Ranjith Liyanapathirana Opens in new window Description This subject is offered in alternate years.  This subject will develop an understanding of the theory and practice of radio and satellite communication techniques and measurements and provide an introduction to space communication systems.  It will complement the general communication engineering units, addressing advanced topics important and specific to radio and satellite communications. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Communications Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ELEC 3001 OR
ELEC 4001 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 3699 - Satellite Communication Assumed Knowledge Physics and Materials, Mathematics for Engineers 1 and 2, Astrophysics. Learning Outcomes Explain the special challenges and techniques of radio and satellite communications
Explain the launch, maintenance and operation of communication satellites and associated telescopes
Demonstrate practical knowledge of tracking stations, earth station equipment, telescopes and communication gateways
Explain the techniques and use of radio and optical telescopes and associated equipment used in ground based and space stations
Demonstrate an understanding of the different architectures and applications of low earth orbit, medium earth orbit and geostationary earth orbit satellite systems
Plan, conduct, interpret and document experiments performed in the laboratory Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 1.5 hours per week over 12 weeks. 30 Y Individual Y  Report Each oral presentation 10 minutes per student.
Report 2,000 words 10 N Individual N  Final Exam 3 hours 60 N Individual N Structures that include subject Electrical Engineering, Testamur Major (T102) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Telecommunications Engineering, Minor (0338) Telecommunications, Concentration (0120)