Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 2007 Group Work in Social Work Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400509 Coordinator Ben Joseph Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with the opportunity to develop knowledge of group work theory, group dynamics and facilitation skills in group work practice in the human services. In addition, students will be learning about working in teams in human service agencies, and effectively collaborate with their colleagues in group settings. Students will integrate theory with practice in an experiential group setting in the classroom. Students will also be examining issues related to culturally responsive group work practice with marginalised people, and addressing group work issues of diversity in gender and culture. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 1003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 1666 Bachelor of Social Work, 1665 Bachelor of Community Welfare or 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice / Bachelor of Social Work. Assumed Knowledge Basic understanding of groups and group dynamics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse a range of theories of groups, group dynamics and group processes;
Critically reflect on their use of self as group participants and facilitator;
Outline the significance of professional and agency contexts of group work practice;
Apply an understanding of, and respect for, ethical and culturally responsive practice in group work;
Utilise group work knowledge and skills to facilitate group work exercises. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Practical 60 minutes duration 30 N Group Y  Self-Assessment 1,000 words 20 N Individual Y  Multiple Choice 1,800 words 20 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Ben Joseph Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ben Joseph Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)