Academic Handbook Current Edition WELF 2017 Working with Individuals and Families Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400508 Coordinator Sam Lane Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the theories and practice related to social work with individuals and families in diverse practice contexts. It builds on knowledge gained through the prerequisite subjects. Students examine systems theory in relation to family work, and the contributions of feminist therapies and psychological themes. Relevant clinical and social issues such as cross-cultural casework, the impact of the stolen generation on indigenous people's access to social services, and working effectively with grief and loss are examined. This subject assists in preparing students for their first or second fieldwork placement. School Social Sciences Discipline Social Work Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) WELF 1003 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1666 Bachelor of Social Work, 4598 Bachelor of Social Work, 1665 Bachelor of Community Welfare or 4522 Bachelor of Community Welfare or 4523 Bachelor of Community Welfare (Family and Community), 1713 Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identifies theories and intervention strategies for working with individuals and families
Choose, apply and evaluate a practice model in interviews
Critically analyse practice
Reflect on own practice
Develop further skills in working appropriately with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Subject Content 1. this subject introduces students to theories and develops clinical practice skills related to social work with individuals and families in diverse practice contexts.
2. A major theory studied and applied in this subject is the strengths-based approach to casework & work with families.
3. Students also apply systems theory in relation to family work and examine the contribution of feminist therapies, post-modern theory and psychological themes.
4. Relevant clinical and social issues such as cross cultural casework, the impact of the stolen generation on indigenous people?fs access to social services and working effectively with involuntary clients are examined and practiced.
5. Finally students develop skills in conducting a risk assessment at interview. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 questions x 12 weeks = 60 questions 20 N Individual Y  Professional Task 10 minutes & 1000 words 50 N Individual Y  Case Study 1000 words 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Liverpool On-site Subject Contact Sam Lane Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sam Lane Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Summer (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Sam Lane Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Community Welfare (1665) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Social Work (1713) Bachelor of Social Work (1666) Human Welfare and Services (WELF)