Academic Handbook Current Edition MKTG 2012 Public Relations: Strategies and Tactics Credit Points 10 Coordinator Nicole Bridges Opens in new window Description Public Relations: Strategies and Tactics provides the opportunity to connect theoretical knowledge with practical planning, writing, and presenting skills while examining and analysing real-life campaigns. By exploring client concerns, opportunities, and various stakeholder needs, students will learn how to develop compelling pieces of content to convey desired brand messages effectively. This course will delve into the distinctions between Public Relations strategies and tactics through class discussions, case studies, and project-based assessments. Through these assessments, students will demonstrate their ability to develop Public Relations strategies and actionable tactics that will prepare them for a career in Public Relations. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Political Science Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) MKTG 1009 Equivalent Subjects COMM 2011 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Describe the role of and differences between strategy and tactics, and their relationship to Public Relations objectives
Explain the importance of Public Relations strategy in successful communication plans, and the range of approaches and methodologies used in contemporary Public Relations practice
Describe how contemporary Public Relations tactics support the implementation of Public Relations strategies 
Undertake relevant research to develop and leverage appropriate strategies and tactics to achieve Public Relations objectives for specific stakeholder groups, including multicultural and Indigenous Australian peoples and communities.
Create a range of Public Relations tactics appropriate for a specific strategic approach. Subject Content Through weekly lecture pods and a tutorial, students will become familiar with the principles and concepts behind Public Relation strategies and tactics. Students will gain an understanding of: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 250 words written summary 15 minute presentation 20 N Group/Individual N  Proposal 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Portfolio 1500 words equivalent 40 N Individual N  Participation  10 N Individual N Structures that include subject Public Relations, Major (0160) Public Relations, Minor (0160) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)