Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 7001 Advanced Engineering Project 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301006 Coordinator Pan Hu Opens in new window Description In this unit, the students will be working on a major engineering project as a team of 2 to 5 students. The project will be supervised by an academic staff on topics related to his/her research expertise. The students will apply and further develop their expertise in research, engineering project management and planning, work health and safety, and professional writing skills.  The students are required to present outcomes using a professional report which should include a background, objectives, a comprehensive literature review, the methodology and a project plan which can then be completed in Advanced Engineering Project 2. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) ENGR 7013 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify and critique technical publications
Present written professional/technical reports
Examine the Engineering profession and the environment in which it operates
Apply the process involved in contract and project management in Engineering industry via capstone project
Analyse risk situations in an engineering project and apply the theories of risk management to negate or mitigate them
Apply Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) requirements to an engineering project Subject Content 1. Research techniques and technical presentation
2. Technical and environmental risk management
3. Professional management principles and practices
4. Project initiation, tender process and tender analysis
5. Contract management, human resources management and value management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour online 20 N Individual Y  Proposal Minimum of 1,500 words  20 N Group Y  Report  Minimum of 5000 words per group (students need to state individual contributions) 60 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)