Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 7019 Management Accounting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200494 Coordinator Mamun Billah Opens in new window Description The fundamental purpose of any management accounting system in an organisation is to provide appropriate information for (i) costing of products and services; (ii) support functions such as planning, controlling, evaluation, continuous improvement and decision making; and (iii) competitive support. This provides financial and non-financial services to the management team to enhance an organisation’s competitiveness. The subject is designed to provide an understanding of these areas of information through applying concepts, theories and models in a range of individual and collaborative activities. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Co-requisite(s) ACCT 7018 Restrictions Students wishing to enrol in this subject as an elective must seek approval of an Academic program Advisor (Accounting) and be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply a range of costing analyses and techniques for reporting purposes.
2. Evaluate professional or enterprise practice in relation to culture and diversity in management accounting contexts (including first peoples/global) to make recommendations, including contingencies, alternatives and future implication.
3. Critically analyse quality cost information and its uses. 
4. Apply management accounting information to evaluate organisational strategy.
5. Recommend appropriate economic, environmental, and social costs and benefits for organisational sustainability reporting. 
6. Prepare forecasts and budgets for planning, control and reporting. Subject Content 1. Basic cost concepts.
2. Statistics for management accounting incorporating simple linear regression and correlation.
3. Job order and process costing.
4. Support department cost allocations.
5. Activity-based costing.
6. Standard costing.
7. Budgeting.
8. Cost volume profit analysis and tactical decision making.
9. Responsibility accounting and performance evaluation in a decentralised firm.
10. Inventory management.
11. Balanced Scorecard.
12. Environmental cost management and Sustainability Reporting. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Weekly (marked in class) 10 N Individual N  Professional Task 1,900 Words 20 N Individual N  Quiz 2 quizzes, each of 50 minutes duration  20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Sydney City Campus Quarter 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Neelam Goela Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mamun Billah Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Graduate Certificate in Accounting (2790) Master of Professional Accounting (2689) Master of Professional Accounting (Advanced) (2815)