Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 3003 Traditional Chinese Medicine Practice 1 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400354 Coordinator Isabella Leung Opens in new window Description This subject is focused on introductory clinical practice in a clinical setting. It enables the students to link theory with practice. It expands the students' knowledge base of Chinese medicine theory and diagnosis, and the application of acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine treatment.  Students assist with clinical practice, take consultations, and perform basic acupuncture related techniques. Students will also learn basic skills in handling herbal preparation and dispensing.  This subject includes mandatory clinical placement School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) CMPL 2006 Co-requisite(s) CMPL 3001 AND
CMPL 3002 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4660 Bachelor of Health Science-Master of Traditional Chinese Medicine or 4710 Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Conduct basic aspects of clinic and patient management
Conduct Chinese medicine consultations and maintain case records according to
Formulate Chines medicine diagnoses and treatment plans in a clinical setting
Apply acupuncture theories and techniques in the treatment of commonly seen conditions
Explain Chinese medicine diagnosis and treatments to patient in lay terms
Prepare herbal decoction
Dispense raw, granule, patent Chinese herbal medication according to accreditation standards
Apply reflective practice to support clinical learning. Subject Content 1. Basic clinical management and facilitation
- managing patients and patient records
- assisting in equipment used in treatment
- room preparation
2. Conducting a Chinese medicine consultation and forming diagnosis and treatment
3. Explaining Chinese medicine to the patient
4. Preparing of herbal decoctions
5. Dispensing Chinese medicinal prescriptions, labelling and recording requirements, administration advice and precautions
6. Acupuncture prescription formulation for common conditions Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement. Students must also hold a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation. Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Initial case report form + 1500 words supplementary report 30 N Individual Y  Practical Quiz and zoom simulation scenarios 30 Y Individual Y  Professional Task Quiz, zoom simulation scenarios and block skill training when available 40 Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 36 online hours, 20hr block skill trainins S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Yu-Ting Sun Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Traditional Chinese Medicine (4710) Complementary Therapies (CMPL)