Academic Handbook Current Edition MATH 1038 Mathematics for Computing Credit Points 10 Coordinator Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window Description Mathematics forms the backbone of information and communication technology. Video games and multimedia programmers use linear algebra to control movement, actions and animations; analysts depend on number and graph theory to devise models of complex systems; data scientists and machine learning specialists use statistics to train their machine counterparts. The knowledge of mathematics is the difference between a good programmer and a great one.  In this subject, we build a foundation of mathematical concepts that computing graduates require for their careers. During tutorials students will use an online interactive system allowing them to interactively explore mathematical concepts. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Mathematics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of the basics of sets and functions, including exponentials and logarithms.
Solve systems of equations with two and three unknowns, and perform basic matrix operations.
Use trigonometry and coordinate systems, together with matrices and determinants, to solve problems and perform geometric (matrix) transformations (2D and some simple 3D).
Work with various number systems relevant to computing and with modular arithmetic.
Solve introductory probability problems.
Demonstrate an understanding of algorithm efficiency by analysing some simple algorithms. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Short Answer 45 minutes (per Quiz) 40 N Individual Y  Intra-session Exam 1 hour 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Vince, J. (2020). Foundation Mathematics for Computer Science: A Visual Approach (2nd ed.). Springer. Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 2 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Surabaya Semester 1 (2024) Surabaya On-site Subject Contact Stephen Weissenhofer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Cyber Security and Ethical Hacking, Testamur Major (T145) Mathematics (MATH)