Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 3028 Software Construction Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301348 Coordinator Rhys Tague Opens in new window Description Students learn backend software design and secure API development, while also mastering testing and debugging processes. Students also examine development methodologies and build upon existing knowledge of version control and database queries. 
Throughout this subject, students have the opportunity to apply theoretical knowledge to practical software construction tasks and projects. This holistic approach ensures that they are not only prepared for subsequent software development subjects but are also conversant with current industry-relevant technologies for career pathways in Back-End Development such as Software Tester/Reviewer or DevOps Engineer. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Programming Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP2021 Assumed Knowledge Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Apply programming skills to develop and deploy an event-driven software architecture in a web server environment.
Apply secure API practices to control access to online resources.
Demonstrate agile software development practices and processes in a group setting.
Plan, develop, and implement unit and integration tests.
Create a Software Design Document to propose, justify and plan software development.
Implement web server and service management techniques for the purpose of achieving service-level agreements. Subject Content Version Control using Git
JavaScript
Node.js Framework
Secure API Development – JWS and OAUTH
Unit and Integration Testing
Advanced SQL
Server Programming (Python and Javascript)
Agile Methodology SCRUM Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 1000 words 10 N Individual Y  Peer Review 2000 words, or 2 hours per week for 8 weeks 20 N Individual Y  Applied Project 3 hours per week for 8 Weeks 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Rhys Tague Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Major (0031) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3684) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (Health Information Management) (3711) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Arts (3654) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (3737) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Business (Accounting) (3738) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Computer Science (COMP) Software Engineering, Testamur Major (T105) Systems Programming, Major (0064)