Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7005 Egress and Risk Assessment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300717 Coordinator Won Hee Kang Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the concept of risk assessment for fire safety systems relevant to life safety and property protection. The subject helps students develop an understanding of building occupant characteristics and human behaviour during fire emergencies. Parameters, methods and criteria for risk and economic assessments are covered in this subject. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Construction Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5424 - Fire Safety Systems 1 (Property) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge This subject assumes that the student has undertaken study in building construction, building surveying, engineering, science, architecture or a related area or has gained the equivalent knowledge by working in the construction industry in an appropriate capacity for at least four years. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: explain the concept of qualitative and quantitative risk in terms of life safety and property protection;
categorise risk parameters and establish risk assessment criteria
characterise human behaviour in fire emergencies and its implications in egress analysis and fire safety engineering assessment
apply the knowledge and skills to solve specific problems and to conduct quantitative risk assessment and develop risk management strategies. Subject Content Introduction to risk concepts
Risk audits and inspections
Reliability in fire safety engineering
Fire Risk Ranking
Risk analysis
Occupants and detection of fires
Human Behaviour in fires
Occupant movement and egress
Occupants and untenability
Cost benefit analysis
Treatment of risks and risk management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 equivalent, individual 25 N Individual N  Report 1,500 equivalent, individual 25 N Individual N  Report 1,500 equivalent, individual 25 N Individual N  Report 1,500 equivalent, individual 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Won Hee Kang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Graduate Certificate in Fire Safety Engineering (3792) Graduate Diploma in Fire Safety Engineering (3791) Master of Ageing, Wellbeing and Sustainability (4781) Master of Fire Safety Engineering (3705)