Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 4010 Researching Professional Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102657 Coordinator Mary Southall Opens in new window Description The subject is designed to develop students' skills and expertise in investigating their own teaching in Science and Technology.  The subject facilitates a researcherly disposition towards their own professional practice. Students will focus on a specific aspect of their teaching practice related to the concept of engagement and critically reflect upon their own evolving professional identity, philosophy and practice. The subject draws upon key principles and methods of participatory action research to facilitate students' skills and expertise as teacher-researchers. Students will plan an action research proposal that could be implemented in their future practice. This subject is included in the Transition Phase of the Bachelor of Education. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Primary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the 1876 Bachelor of Education (Primary) or 1717 Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education and have successfully completed 240 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand contemporary approaches to teaching and learning, with a specific focus on issues and practices surrounding student engagement and quality teaching;
Apply these contemporary approaches through the analysis and critique of professional teaching practice;
Apply technological, curriculum content and pedagogical knowledge and skills learnt in previous units to inform investigations of their own teaching practices and research process;
Demonstrate an understanding of principles and methods of action research to inform teaching plans and evaluation of teaching;
Design an action research project utilising principles of participatory action research and self-reflective practice, focusing on own self as pre-service teacher;
Demonstrate an appreciation of research as part of professional practice. Subject Content 1. Critical self-reflective practice and analytical skills
2. Principles and methods of participatory action research and the research cycle
3. Relationship between researcher and practitioner
4. Fair Go Pedagogies: The MeE Framework of substantive student engagement
- engaging discourses (links with other units challenging dominant discourses)
- individual Motivational strategies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 50 N Individual N  Proposal 1,500 words 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Mary Southall Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Education (Primary) (1876) Bachelor of Education (Primary) Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education (1717) Teacher Education (TEAC)