Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 3081 Administrative Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Michael Head Opens in new window Description This subject examines the legal principles regulating the exercise of power by the executive arm of government in its various manifestations; ministers, government departments and officials, regulatory bodies, tribunals, inferior courts and local councils. This is examined in the context of Australian constitutional arrangements and it is taught in the context of constitutional themes and principles that underpin the law in this area. The exercise of power examined includes decision making, the exercise of discretion, delegated legislation and the decision making procedure of the major administrative tribunals. The focus is on the principles of judicial review developed by the courts, standing and remedies. There is also an examination of major non-judicial avenues of review by the major tribunals such as the Commonwealth Administrative Appeals Tribunal, and the Ombudsman. The subject will also examine Freedom of Information legislation. This subject examines a number of key cases relating to Indigenous land and political rights, including the dismissal of indigenous representatives. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 2008 Government and Public Law OR
200814 Commercial Transactions Law Equivalent Subjects 200013 Administrative Law Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Identify and evaluate the key concepts and principles of administrative law
Interpret and apply relevant law and policy to analyse legal problems and provide advice to resolve them
Evaluate the role of administrative law in maintaining a just and civilized society
Locate and evaluate relevant case law and legislation using a range of legal research tools
Demonstrate effective and appropriate communication skills in a professional context, including accurate citation according to AGLC style Subject Content Introduction and Overview of Administrative Law in its constitutional context. 
Access to Government (Freedom of Information and Reasons for Decisions). 
Non-judicial Review of Administrative Action 
Judicial Review, including the grounds of judicial review, primarily ultra vires, natural justice, jurisdictional error. 
Judicial review of delegated legislation. 
Standing. 
Judicial Remedies. 
Investigating Administrative Activity (Corruption and Ombudsman).
Key cases relating to Indigenous land and political rights. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Participation ongoing throughout semester 10 N Individual Y  Professional Task 3000 words 45 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours- invigilated 45 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Michael Head Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Michael Head Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Michael Head Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (2785) Bachelor of Accounting/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2839) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (2843) Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2844) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (2537) Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2830) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (2788) Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2840) Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2769) Bachelor of Construction Management Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2838) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (2767) Bachelor of Criminal and Community Justice/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2836) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (2766) Bachelor of Criminology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2835) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (2801) Bachelor of Information Systems Advanced/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2842) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (2800) Bachelor of Information Systems/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2841) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (2768) Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2837) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (2758) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2834) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (2501) Bachelor of Laws (Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2828) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (2502) Bachelor of Laws (Non Graduate Entry) (Honours) (2829) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (2743) Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2832) Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (2538) Diploma in Laws (exit only) (2827) Law (LAWS) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833) ​Bachelor of Social Science/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2831)