Academic Handbook Current Edition PHIL 7017 What is Islam? Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102585 Coordinator Milad Milani Opens in new window Description The 'Muslim question' has been a topic of interest to Western scholarship for over four hundred years. The subject addresses this question in two ways: firstly, by exploring internal historical conceptualisations of the faith-identity of Islam, and examining how these have shaped modern understandings of Islam from within the faith; secondly, by introducing students to multidisciplinary approaches to the study of Islam and inviting them to consider the construction and deconstruction of Islamic Studies as a field of study at various stages of history. The subject provides students with the opportunity to gain increased awareness of both debates within the field and those that scrutinise the field, that is, becoming comfortable with interrogating the cluster of theoretical and methodological strategies for scholarly inquiry into the study of Islam. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Religious Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify major historical, anthropological, and sociological approaches to the study of Islam.
Analyse key texts from scholarship on the study of Islam.
Apply reflexive methodologies and theories to reading Islam in modernity.
Recognise key influences and changes within Islamic history and in the history of field. Subject Content Situating Islam in academic discourse
Historical Islam, imagined Islam, and unknown Islam
Categories and typologies of ?ebeing Islamic?f
?eNormative Islam?f and the ?eAuthenticity debate?f
Understanding Islam: the insider-outsider tension Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse Analysis 2000 words in total 50 N Individual Y  Essay 4000 words 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Philosophy and Religious (PHIL)