Academic Handbook Current Edition ELEC 7003 Advanced Electrical Machines and Drives Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300601 Coordinator Jamal Rizk Opens in new window Description The subject covers various types of electrical motors and drive systems, their applications and control. The subject aims to introduce an advanced study of electrical machines and drives. It also covers application considerations and modern developments in high performance drive systems. This course covers various types of the speed control, the starting, the braking and the dynamics of different electrical machines and drives. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Electrical And Electronic Engineering And Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Incompatible Subjects LGYA 5847 - Variable Speed Electric Drives LGYA 5844 - Special Electrical Machines Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Assumed Knowledge Electric Circuits and Basic Electro magnetics. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply various electrical drive systems to industrial and commercial applications and discuss their requirements.
Analyse various types of DC and AC drives.
Explain new developments in control of drive systems.
Discuss and explain the use of various electrical motors in different electromechanical systems. Subject Content Introduction to machine drives. Principal characteristics and requirements. Basic Components of an Electric Drive System.
D.C. motors. Circuit representation. Speed-torque characteristics.
Speed Control of D.C motors
Induction motors. Circuit representation. Speed-torque characteristics.
Speed control of Induction Motors: voltage control, slip-energy recovery, speed control by inverters, frequency and Voltage/Frequency Control.
Power electronic devices and basic power converters.
Three-phase naturally commutated bridge circuit
Braking of Electrical Motors: Regenerative, Dynamics and counter-current braking.
Dynamics of DC and Induction Motors Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 25 pages which include all the circuits and graphics. 25 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 55 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Jamal Rizk Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Electrical and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T114) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Electrical and Telecommunication, Testamur Major (T113) Electrical, Testamur Major (T035) Engineering, Testamur Major (T012) Mechanical and Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T112) Mechatronic and Biomedical, Testamur Major (T116) Mechatronic, Testamur Major (T063)