Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 7010 Music Therapy Skills & Practice B Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102801 Coordinator Allison Fuller Opens in new window Description In 2024, this subject is replaced by PERF 6004 Music Therapy Skills & Practice B. This subject focuses on the development of therapeutic music skills to support the delivery of music therapy to participants ranging in age from infants to the elderly. Students practice and demonstrate a diverse range of skill sets that can then be applied within their practicum placement as a major component of this subject. Considerations when planning and delivering individual and group programs are explored, along with technology, composition and cultural issues within music therapy. This subject utilises active learning techniques within a lectorial format. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects PERF 7001 - Creative Music Therapy Practicum 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1650 - Master of Creative Music Therapy. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Employ critical thinking strategies in applying music therapy practical skills to in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings with a focus on: skills, repertoire, and improvisation frameworks for guitar, piano, voice and more.
Explain the application of the Australian Music Therapy Association (AMTA) Standards of Practice and apply them to in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings for individual and group music therapy participants.
Describe and reflect on experiences and learnings from RMT Placement (1st Year) or Independent Placement (2nd Year).
Produce written case study reports based on individual and/or group participants within in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings.
Apply knowledge of: the Guided Imagery in Music (GIM) approach: Electronic music technologies (EMTs); Culture-centred practice; and Therapeutic repertoire portfolios within in-class active learning scenarios and real-world placement settings.
Demonstrate a student novice (1st Year) or student advanced beginner (2nd Year) level of music therapy skills within one of the following methods: Improvisational; Re-creative; Compositional; or Receptive. Subject Content Music Therapy Placement: 160 hours of placement in a clinical, educational, community or other setting considered appropriate.
Therapeutic Music Skills: Skills, repertoire and improvisation frameworks for guitar, piano, voice and additional instruments.
Methods and Applications: For addressing the development of communication, physical, social or emotional goals with individual or group music therapy participants.
Approaches and Orientations: Techniques for use within specific music therapy approaches and orientations.
Music Technology: Tools, apps & software to build musicianship skills for use within music therapy delivery.
Culture-Centred Music Therapy: Repertoire and considerations appropriate for a specific cultural group/s.
Case-study report writing: based on the needs of individual and/or group music therapy participants. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Placement Performance 160 hours  40 N Individual N  Report 1,500 words  20 N Individual N  Practical Exam 30 minutes  40 N Individual Y  Participation Attendance at a minimum of 11 lectorials across the semester S/U Y Individual Y Structures that include subject Master of Creative Music Therapy (1650) Performing Arts (PERF)