Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 4004 Design Studio 6: Ambience, Place and Behaviour Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301084 Coordinator James Berry Opens in new window Description Designers responding to complex societal challenges require focus on people, places and systems thinking to make sense in guiding new investment in innovation. This subject builds industrial design expertise in four domains including human environments, responsible design, user-centred design, and technology development through applied design research, contextual inquiry methods, and articulation of innovation proposals through conceptual and validated physical modelling, and an interdisciplinary consultative viewpoint. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Other Engineering And Related Technologies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) ENGR 4003 Equivalent Subjects ENGR 3011 - Design Studio 4 Simulate to Innovate Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply design processes, knowledge and skills to develop a product to meet tangible and intangible user needs.
Apply the principles and values embedded in formal professional , legal and industry standards.
Provide evidence of iterative design evolution through design research, prototyping and ePortfolio of work.
Produce functional and efficient market ready products according to needs, manufacturing constraints, and interdisciplinary protocols.
Use lifecycle management principles (e.g. cradle to cradle, analysis of materials and processes, CES EduPack) in the design of products or systems.
Scaffold an industrial design capstone project by developing a design brief toward creating a new value proposition of social, economic, and environmental significance. Subject Content Design brief development of relevance to a local real-world context
Cultural probe study
Product Development meeting tangible and intangible user needs
Product and service life cycle management Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Proposal 3 low fidelity prototypes, 4 concepts, Pecha Kucha, e-Portfolio, 1000 words report. 35 N Both (Individual & Group) N  Presentation 3 high fidelity prototypes, 4 concepts, Pecha Kucha, e-Portfolio, 2000 words report. 65 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)