Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 7001 Advanced Machine Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301119 Coordinator Oliver Obst Opens in new window Description Advanced Machine Learning explores modern methods of classification, clustering and regression to make predictions and analyse different forms of data. Issues that face all machine learning methods, such as model evaluation, assessment and generalisation will also be analysed. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Statistics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMP 7024 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Fundamentals of computer programming and basic linear algebra. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe appropriate machine learning methods for given problems.
Fit modern machine learning models to data.
Make predictions based on a fitted machine learning model.
Analyse data based on a fitted machine learning model.
Evaluate the utility of a machine learning method for given data. Subject Content Introduction to Advanced Machine Learning 
Deep Learning 
Reinforcement Learning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5x60 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Report 15 pages 50 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 mins 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Oliver Obst Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Testamur Major (T002) Electrical and Electronic Eng. (ELEC) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Graduate Diploma in Neuromorphic Engineering (exit only) (8125) Master of Applied Neuromorphic Engineering (8124) Master of Data Science (3735) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Master of Neuromorphic Engineering (8123) Other information Technology (INFO)