Academic Handbook Current Edition CART 6007 Writing and Genre Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window Description In this subject, students engage with the conventions of genre writing, including (but not limited to) crime, fantasy, romance, historical and/or speculative fiction. Students will study a range of genre texts as a jumping-off point for their own work, gaining experience in the conventions of different genres as a pathway to producing a longer work in a chosen genre and form. The class includes collective workshopping and discussion with peers about drafts of written work. Students’ work for final assessments will demonstrate both an understanding of the conventions of a chosen genre and a willingness to challenge and extend them. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Written Communication Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects CART 7021 - Writing and Ideas Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1831 - Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing or 8083 -  Bachelor of Research Studies. Assumed Knowledge Students will be expected to have postgraduate level reading and writing skills. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Assess the ways in which different contexts can shape and influence genre writing.
Integrate key techniques of genre writing into written work.
Write creatively in a variety of forms of genre fiction.
Use drafting and editing processes to write effectively.
Critique the ways in which different cultural contexts can shape and influence genre fiction.
Critique the value of different literatures and the cultural role and standing of genre fiction. Subject Content Close reading of a variety of genre texts
Writing creatively in response to genre texts
Investigation of the value of different literatures; a comparison of the cultural standing and role of genre fiction with that of literary fiction
Engagement with cultural contexts of genre
The opportunity to share creative work with an experienced tutor and fellow students Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 1000 word essay and 2000 word creative work 90 N Individual Y  Participation  10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mette Jakobsen Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1833) Graduate Diploma in Literature and Creative Writing (exit only) (1832) Master of Arts in Literature and Creative Writing (1831) Other Creative Arts (CART)