Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5029 PDHPE Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102886 Coordinator Christopher Lazarou Opens in new window Description This subject explores contemporary and differentiated approaches to teaching Personal Development, Health and Physical Education (PDHPE) in senior secondary contexts and builds on PDHPE Curriculum 1. Students will use relevant syllabus documents to develop innovative and engaging lesson plans that cater for a range of senior learners. Students will apply a range of effective teaching strategies designed to engage a diversity of learners in a supportive, safe and culturally responsive classroom environment. Digital and practical resources to assess and improve learning in the senior years in the discipline will be developed. Opportunities for investigation and discussion of current research particularly related to the development of Health Education will be explored. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714 or 1914 must have PDHPE Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of PDHPE curricula in Stage 6.
Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in the Health curriculum area for senior students.
Demonstrate intercultural understanding through engaging with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander sense of connection to place and kinship groups, participation in physical activity, traditional and contemporary games, and health initiatives.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent senior student-centred lessons that extend students’ literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of senior assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design relevant, innovative and authentic teaching programs that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching PDHPE in stage 6 and include opportunities to develop students’ understanding of health concepts.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of sources in teaching senior lessons and programs.
Critically reflect on Health Education and demonstrate capacity to practically manage behaviour and sensitive issues, including knowledge and understanding of the administrative principles and safety procedures in relation to Health Education. Subject Content What is the nature of PDHPE in the senior years of secondary education? How is the subject linked to what is taught in the junior and middle years of secondary education?
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
What is the significance of kinship in relationships and how does a sense of connection to Country/Place for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People enhances health and wellbeing?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about Health Education? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2012) PDHPE Stage 6 Syllabus Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Christopher Lazarou Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)