Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2051 Animation and Visual Effects Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102828 Coordinator Wendy Chandler Opens in new window Description Explore the art and technology of animation and visual effects as applied to digital screen media production. In this unit, you will be introduced to the principles of animation and compositing and learn how to create effective motion sequences integrated with sound. Working with commercial software, you will explore the unique possibilities of animation and visual effects production and experiment with alternative, creative, narrative storytelling approaches. Develop critical, conceptual and practical skills within the context of animation and visual effects which will then enable you to deliver powerful and compelling visual stories on multiple media platforms. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Computer Graphics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects COMM 2008 - Animation and Visual Effects COMM 2031 - Principles of Non-Linear Editing COMM 2042 - Visual Effects VISU 2007 - Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC) COMM 2054 - Animation and Visual Effects (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of current trends and processes of animation and visual effects in relation to digital screen media production.
Apply and critique the use of animation and visual effects in such a way to creatively produce relevant solutions to specific concept and design requirements.
Create, record and manipulate material for short form animation and visual effects production.
Demonstrate relevant technical and software skills in relation to animation and digital effects production. These include green screen studio technical and safety procedures and software training in relevant Adobe Creative Suite applications.
Assess the risk involved in professional production projects. Subject Content Animation and visual effects histories & case studies.
Animation and visual effects production practices and principles.
Green screen studio production and compositing. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual N  Applied Project Up to 30 seconds 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 Words equivalent 20 N Individual N  Applied Project Up to 5 minutes 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Wendy Chandler Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Creative Living for Cultural Wellbeing, Minor (0334) Game Design, Testamur Major (T060) Graphic and Design (DESN) Screen Media Design, Minor (0204) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268) Visual Arts and Crafts (VISU) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)