Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2046 Researching Culture Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101906 Coordinator Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window Description This subject introduces students to the diverse field of cultural research. It outlines and explains  qualitative research methods and methodologies used by cultural researchers. Tutorials and assessment tasks involve 'hands-on' activities designed to familiarise students with the research process and research practices that explore taken-for-granted aspects of everyday life such as interviews, focus groups and observation based research; as well as sensory research, the use of diary methods, and the critically important ethical dimensions of social and cultural research. Through completion of this subject, students will gain critical literacies in creating and analysing a range of qualitative data. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Studies In Human Society Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HUMN 1066 Introduction to Culture and Society OR
HUMN 1049 Understanding Visual Culture Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points including one of the pre-requisite subjects shown above. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain and appropriately utilise key methods used in cultural research
Critically discuss and evaluate cultural research projects
Demonstrate understanding of contemporary debates about the practice and ethics of cultural research Subject Content 1. Introduction to cultural research
2. Exploring experience: conceptual and ethical issues
3. Interviews
4. Focus Groups
5. Observation based research
6. Sensory research
7. Researching material culture
8. Diary method
9. Statistics and cultural research
10. Mixed methods Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 400 words (plus associated practical element of exercise) 10 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,200 words (plus associated practical element of exercises) 40 N Individual N  Portfolio 1,200 words (plus associated practical element of exercises) 40 N Individual N  Participation Completion of preparation activities and participation in in-class activities 10 N Individual N Prescribed Texts None Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alexandra Coleman Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Culture and Society, Major (0264) Culture and Society, Minor (0264) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)