Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3013 Health Promotion Practice 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400785 Coordinator Justin Guagliano Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the knowledge gained in Health Promotion Practice 1 through ongoing study of the processes required in project design and management in health promotion. The 120 hour placement provides students with the opportunity to apply health promotion theory to practical projects on current population health priorities.  Students develop knowledge and skills related to implementation and evaluation of health promotion projects, highlighting the importance of the core values and principles necessary for effective and ethical health promotion practice. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 2001 AND
PUBH 3012 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7184 - Community Development and Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4656 Bachelor of Health Science or 6000 Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health Promotion) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the elements of best practice in health promotion and how these elements can be applied to contemporary health promotion practice.
Identify key considerations in the project management of health promotion interventions (documentation, record keeping and partnerships).
Discuss a range of techniques for measuring health promotion projects (process, outputs, outcomes and impact).
Develop skills in conducting evaluation of community organisational capacity and social capital.
Identify relevant and appropriate partners and networks for involvement in evaluation of community based health promotion projects.
Critically analyse health promotion initiatives to ensure issues of sustainability and dissemination are addressed.
Explain the core values of health promotion practice and how these impact on health promotion project delivery in a community based setting.
Critically analyse and evaluate a health promotion project in an organisational (placement) setting.
Apply practical skills in collating information, grant writing and presentation of information to peers. Subject Content 1. Methods of ensuring adequate management of the implementation of health promotion projects (documentation, record keeping, partnerships).
2. The nature of measurement in evaluation (qualitative and quantitative means of gathering information).
3. Strategies and techniques for measuring central aspects of health promotion projects (process, outputs, outcomes, impact).
4. Multi-level evaluation - measuring community and organizational capacity, social capital.
5. Sustainability issues and use of media and other forms of disseminating information.
6. Involving partners and others in evaluation of health promotion.
7. Core values and principles as applied in health promotion activities.
8. Have practical placement experience in an organisation involved in conducting evaluations of health promotion projects.
9. Developing skills at collating, analysing and presenting information to peers.
10. Grant writing. Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites NOTE: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed. Special Requirements - NSW Health Legislative Prerequisites Pre-requisites Student Compliance Information for all Health-Related Placements Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, and a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Western Program Requirements Visit the Special Requirements webpage for details about your program. Special Requirements Mandatory NSW Health student placement policy requirements To be able to undertake placement in any NSW Health facility you must be assessed as compliant with NSW Health student placement policy in the first year of your program, regardless of when you expect to go on your first placement. Access and read the NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet. NSW Student Compliance Information Booklet Please ensure that you Find your existing National Police Check or apply for one  Gather documentary evidence of your vaccination history  Print and compete all relevant NSW Health forms relevant to the campus you are enrolled at or online enrolment requirements  Follow booklet instructions on how to have your compliance documents assessed by NSW health staff. International students have additional requirements; the link to the booklet will inform you of these requirements. School Requirements Contact your School for further details regarding your School’s requirements, if any, such as Student Compliance Resources are also available on the Placements Hub web page (NSW students only) https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/learning_futures/home/placements_hub/placements_hub/student_compliance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,500 words 40 N Individual Y  Proposal 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Viva Voce 15 minutes 10 Y Individual Y  Reflection Self- reflection – 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance Supervisor Report S/U Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Public Health (PUBH)