Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 2016 Music Group Performance Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102555 Coordinator Brendan Smyly Opens in new window Description This subject replaces 101521- Collaboration and Live Music Performance. Through a series of lectures and workshops, students will pursue two main threads of practical study imperative to any working musician. The first is collaboration, which will be practised in workshops (with repertoire determined by lecturers) and probed in a written task. The second area of study is the development of a suite of onstage skills and strategies including physical gesture, audience communication and facility with musical equipment. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1007 OR
PERF 1008 OR
PERF 1012 OR
PERF 1010 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 1098 - Music Performance 3 Australian Repertoire PERF 2003 - Collaboration and Live Music Performance Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that students can perform at Level 2 standard (determined either by having successfully completed some pre-requisite subjects or through an audition process) where they demonstrate musical fluency on chosen instrument/voice/other media. Learning Outcomes develop musical communication skills in the process of rehearsing repertoire as part of a small group;
emerge with a greater understanding of group dynamics and collaboration;
critically engage with the collaboration experience through a written task;
develop the facility to constructively evaluate music performances;
consider and develop a personal repertoire of onstage physical gesture;
consider and rehearse the notion of persona and its relationship to communicating with audiences; and
enhance existing skills concerning instrumentation and amplification.
Those attending Art of Sound will be able to: participate in and contribute to Art of Sound activities and projects, collaborating with students across the Music program to develop and enhance production, technical and performance skills. Involvement in Art of Sound will culminate in contributing to the Creativity Unlimited Music Festival. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 11 x 2 hour rehearsal workshops 30 N Group Y  Practical 10-15 minutes 40 N Group Y  Essay 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Participation Minimum 2 hrs per fortnight S/U Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Brendan Smyly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Music Performance Studies, Minor (0024) Music Performance, Major (0023) Music Performance, Minor (0023) Music for Primary Teaching, Minor (0210) Music for Secondary Teaching, Major (0140) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF)