Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 6006 Medical Law Credit Points 10 Coordinator Emma Bartley Opens in new window Description This subject analyses Australian medical law.  The legal issues are examined in broad social, cultural and ethical contexts, including critical perspectives on medical law and policy relating to Indigenous people. Medical law is underpinned by the rapid pace of scientific and social developments that generate new issues for medicine and for the law, many of which are at the core of policy— birth and reproduction, choice and responsibility, life and death. Students will engage in professional learning activities to demonstrate their application of this body of law in practice. School Law Discipline Legal Practice Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7047
LAWS 7072
LAWS 7057 and
LAWS 7048 Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3050 Restrictions Must be enrolled in the 2826 Juris Doctor program. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically evaluate medico-legal principles from primary and secondary legal sources.
Apply knowledge of medical law to practical issues.
Analyse the relationship between law, medicine, and ethics, incorporating different social and cultural perspectives.
Evaluate recent and potential areas appropriate for medical law reform.
Develop advanced communication and reflection skills. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1,500 words or equivalent 30 N Individual N  Professional Task 3,000 words 35 N Individual N  Professional Task 3,000 words 35 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Emma Bartley Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS)