Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7094 The Contemporary Business Environment Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200820 Coordinator Maria Estela Varua Opens in new window Description This subject provides foundational knowledge that is needed to appreciate the complexities involved in managing businesses in an uncertain and complex global setting. Emphasis is placed on the influence of the economic, socio-cultural, political, and technological environments on a business and the need for businesses to adopt a global perspective in formulating and implementing strategic interventions for enhancing competitiveness. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7093 - The Business Environment Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Identify the economic, socio-cultural, political, and technological environments within which contemporary businesses operate;
Discuss critical issues that influence the effective operation of a business in a global business environment;
Interpret, from a strategic perspective, the implications of business decision making across all key areas of business activity;
Analyse the commercial importance and relevance of corporate sustainability and social responsibility in business decision making. Subject Content 1. Introduction to the economic, socio-cultural, political, and technological environments within which contemporary businesses operate
2. Interactions between the multiple environments of business and the major functional areas of business
3. Implications of the multiple environments of business for business ownership, management roles, production systems, employees, marketing, customer communication and financial management
4. The global business environment, strategic approaches to international markets, business ethics and corporate social responsibility Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 30 N Group Y  Presentation Oral presentation 5 minutes 20 N Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Graduate Certificate in Business (2765) Master of Business Administration (2761) Master of Business Administration/Master of Applied Finance (2782) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112)