Academic Handbook Current Edition INFO 3018 Computing Practicum Credit Points 10 Coordinator Harpreet Kaur Opens in new window School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Information Technology, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students in 3687 Bachelor of Information Systems and 3639 Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology - COMM 1026 INFS 1006
Students in 3688 Bachelor of Information Systems (Advanced) - COMM 1026 INFS 1015
Students in 3506 Bachelor of Computer Science - COMM 1026 Learning Outcomes Analyse knowledge and skills requirements for workplace practice as part of performance planning and goal setting
Communicate effectively in a variety of forms to diverse audiences
Conduct professional presentations appropriate to context
Work in a team environment demonstrating professional practice attributes and workplace culture awareness
Report and reflect  workplace experience, relevance of academic material to workplace activities, response to performance feedback, and skills development. Subject Content A 120 hrs full time or part-time equivalent of industrial training in the ICT industry performing following tasks: Work integrated learning Students will be working in an external organisation within Australia or department/division within the University carrying out tasks related to ICT in the day-to-day business activities. Students are free to nominate an organisation of their choice within Australia. For those students who are not able to find their own placements, SCDMS and/or the University’s Careers Division could support student in finding one. These positions may/may not involve payments. This engagement allows the University to expose computing students to the industry prior to completion of courses. This essentially helps to bridge the gap in academia and ICT industry. The engaging organisations have the opportunity to access future workforce. This may assist them in finding possible future employees. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Log/Workbook A daily kept diary with the employer’s evaluation at the end of each week S/U Y Individual Y  Report A 2-3 pages report detailing the tasks, responsibilities undertaken and skills gained by the student S/U Y Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance A standard form (approx. 1 page) is provided for Employer to fill in and submit to the unit coordinator as a confidential report. S/U Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes video presentation S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harpreet Kaur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Harpreet Kaur Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Information and Communications Technology (3639) Cybersecurity Management, Testamur Major (T153) Other information Technology (INFO)