Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2064 (Poly)Crisis, Cross-cultural Responses & Resilience Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102790 Coordinator Kathleen Openshaw Opens in new window Description This elective subject is focused on (poly)crisis, responses and resilience strategies in cross-cultural contexts. In our contemporary world, humans must navigate crises clusters that are entangled and re-enforcing. Countries across the world face similar social, economic and environmental challenges, but these manifest and are responded to in context specific ways. This subject will give students the opportunity to undertake a 14-day international field trip where they will be immersed in a rich intercultural and cross-disciplinary learning environment. WSU students will buddy up with local students in a co-created learning setting, where they will each share their cultural perspectives and discipline specific skills and knowledge, in understanding how (poly)crisis impacts various facets of everyday local community life, and how these are managed. Students will gain sought after international experience, build cultural competency skills and regional relationships, and apply what they have learned to parallel (poly)crisis situations in Australia. School Social Sciences Discipline Studies in Human Society, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Students must have completed 80 credit points of study. Students must have a medical clearance letter from their GP, and the appropriate vaccinations. They should provide this proof to the Subject Coordinator prior to enrolment and departure. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: 1. Apply culturally literate, social sciences knowledge and skills to examine the impacts of, and strategies to manage, crises situations across different facets of local community life.
2. Identify the relationship between local and global processes in the context of (poly)crisis, crisis response and resilience strategies.
3. Identify and respond appropriately to the ethics and politics of working in a cross-cultural crisis setting.
4. Demonstrate the capacity to inform present and future crisis management and response practices in a cross disciplinary and cross-cultural team setting.
5. Demonstrate critical reflexivity in relation to intercultural and cross disciplinary crisis settings. 
6. Demonstrate the capacity to appropriately disseminate information to different crisis management stakeholders. 
7. Identify how the learnings and skills students have developed during their cross-cultural learning activities may be incorporated into future study/career. Subject Content 1. Preparing for cultural immersion in (poly)crisis situations.
2. The ethics and politics of working in cross-cultural, and crisis contexts. 
3. Understanding the cultural influences on crisis responses and resilience strategies in community contexts.
4. Connecting global socio-political, economic and climatic processes to local (poly)crisis situations, and response plans. 
5. How to apply discipline specific knowledge and skills in a cross cultural, cross disciplinary team when responding to crisis. 
6. Critical engagement with the UN Sustainability Goals. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 800 words 30 N Individual N  Report 2,000 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 5 minutes 30 N Individual N Work Integrated Learning Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)