Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 7009 Clinical Oncology and Chinese Medicine Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401136 Coordinator Julia Xiao Opens in new window Description This subject is focused on the clinical application of Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) and acupuncture in the management of cancer. Today, cancer is one of the leading causes of death and disease burden. Survival rates for many types of cancer have improved in recent years and long-term survival challenges accepted practices in cancer care and management. This subject explores application of Chinese medicine to the management of cancer, through the ancient wisdom in the classic literature recourses and contemporary clinical practice and research. The subject addresses the commonly used strategies, approaches and roles of Chinese medicine at different stages of cancer as well as the use of Chinese medicine as a supplementary therapy for common types of cancer. School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4716 Master of Chinese Medicine or 4795 Master of Chinese Medicine(or 4675 Master of Health Science (Traditional Chinese Medicine) and/or 4678 Master of Health Science (Acupuncture). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the concept, aetiology and pathogenesis of cancer.
Describe basic assessments of cancer and compare an contrast conventional treatments and commonly-used interventions for cancer management using acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine
Critically analyse the theory and practice of CM for relieving symptoms induced by cancer treatment
Critically analyse the theory and practice of CM as supportive care for common cancers
Identify and critically evaluate the strengths and limitations of CM for cancer Subject Content 1. Overview of oncology
a. Introduction to cancer: concept, causes and classification
b. Cancer assessments: grade, staging and cancer markers
c. Conventional treatment for cancer
- surgery
- Radiotherapy
- chemotherapy
- other therapies
2. Overview of CM in relation to cancer
a. Historical perspective
b. Aetiology and pathogenesis in CM
c. Diagnostic approaches in CM
d. Major research progress of CM for cancer
3. Strategies and principles of CHM and acupuncture management for cancer
a. Timing of engagement and relevant approaches
b. Treatment principles
c. Commonly-used CHM for cancer
d. Commonly-used acupuncture for cancer
e. Potential anticancer mechanisms of CHM
f. Cautions and safety
4. CM for relieving induced signs and symptoms associated with conventional therapies
a. Digestive symptoms
b. Bone marrow suppression
c. Fatigue
d. Hot flashes
e. Mucositis
f. Others
5. CM as supportive care for common cancers
a. Breast cancer
b. Prostate cancer
c. Colorectal cancer
d. Lung cancer
e. Melanoma
f. Lymphoma
g. Leukaemia
6. Strengths and limitations of acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 2,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Essay 2,500 words 30 N Individual Y  Case Study Minimum of 6 online posts with substantial content to fellow students in relation to online discussion topics 20 N Individual Y  Quiz 15 minutes of each workshop 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Shengxi (George) Zhang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Complementary Therapies (CMPL) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795)