Academic Handbook Current Edition ENGR 6002 Planning for Bushfire Prone Areas Credit Points 10 Coordinator Tim Carroll Opens in new window Description This subject describes the relevant planning issues for bushfire prone areas and the measures that can be implemented to ensure appropriate development in these areas. Through collaboration with industry professionals students learn that knowledge and understanding of the planning, design and construction of the urban form is important in managing the risk of bushfire in the community. It is also fundamental in understanding of the management of development for bushfires and the necessary infrastructure requirements for bushfire suppression and property protection in bushfire prone areas. Students evaluate and report on planning principles and legal issues in bushfire prone areas, as well as use the legislative framework to determine impacts on property and assets. This subject challenges students to become more strategic thinkers in planning and preparing for bushfire. Knowledge gained in this subject/program will benefit students aspiring to careers such as bushfire consultants and land-use planners. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Fire Technology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 6 subject Equivalent Subjects ENGR 7016 - Planning for Bushfire Prone Areas Assumed Knowledge Understanding of land use planning system in State/Territory. Learning Outcomes 1. Apply the process of determining bushfire prone areas.
2. Explain the concept of measures in combination to a range of developments in bushfire prone areas.
3. Discuss the process of identifying strategic planning measures for regional and sub-regional planning and bushfire prone areas.
4. Apply the relevant legislation that governs the development of land in areas subject to bushfires and how this may affect the determination of asset protection (including site assessment) and the bushfire attack levels for future buildings.
5. Collaborate with other practitioners in the design, siting and layout options available to reduce the impact of bushfire on a residential and rural-residential subdivision.
6. Ascertain the requirements for water, access, and other infrastructure on the safety of buildings subject to bushfire attack.
7. Apply the principles of landscaping in moderating bushfire impact on a building. Subject Content 1. Measures in Combination for Bushfire Protection
2. Determining Bushfire Prone Areas
3. Planning Legislation and bushfire
4. Site Assessment for bushfire protection
5. Strategic and regional planning for bushfire
6. Defendable space (asset protection zones) and construction requirements
7. Subdivision layout and access
8. Services and infrastructure
9. Siting and design of dwellings
10. Vulnerable developments
11. Planning reports for bushfire protection
12. Commercial and industrial developments
13. Landscaping and maintenance Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1,200 words 20 N Individual Y  Critical Review 3,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 3,000 words 30 Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes + 5 minutes Q&A 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Tim Carroll Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Bushfire Protection (3794) Graduate Diploma in Bushfire Protection (3793) Master of Bushfire Protection (3708) Other Engr. and Related Tech (ENGR)