Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7019 Applied Machine Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301312 Coordinator Vernon Asuncion Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the foundation and concepts underpinning Machine Learning (ML) at a more abstract level, and provides more focus on its practical applications in areas such as: the classification and extraction of text data from various documents and web pages, image processing, Google's PageRank algorithm and relational data mining (RDM). These learning objectives are achieved through various ML software and a series of practicals and projects. The subject covers the concepts and notions of supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning, perceptron, neural networks, support vector machines (SVM), knowledge representation (KR) based RDM, and a comprehensive introduction to the Scikit-learn ML Python libraries. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Artificial Intelligence Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Assumed Knowledge Some probability and statistics knowledge would be advantageous. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse the scope of current machine learning approaches and applications for both current and future use.
Determine the most appropriate tools to use for machine learning tasks using software applications including Python and R programming languages.
Explain the core principles behind machine learning algorithms.
Distinguish between supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning notions.
pply Machine Learning software to real-world problems. Subject Content 1. Review of the fundamentals of probability theory, statistics and basic linear algebra notions.
2. Installation and introduction to common ML software, which includes the introduction on the use of R and Python as needed for this course.
3. Introduction to linear, multiple and logistic regression.
4. Model selection, regularization and cross-validation:
Applications I: Introduction to NLP and classifying text data using logistic regression and naive Bayes.
5. Introduction to support vector machines (SVM):
Applications II: Classifying text data using SVM classifiers.
6. Introduction to neural networks (NN):
Applications III: Classifying text data and image data using recurrent and convolutional NN.
7. Unsupervised learning: K-Means Clustering and Hierarchical Clustering:
Applications IV: Google?fs PageRank algorithm.
8. Introduc Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 1 hour(per Quiz) 40 N Individual N  Practical 2 hours 20 N Individual N  Numerical Problem Solving 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Vernon Asuncion Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Vernon Asuncion Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Artificial Intelligence, Testamur Major (T002) Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Computer Science (COMP) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information Governance (3775) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Artificial Intelligence (Research) (8128) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780)