Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7004 Assessment: Psychological Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102359 Coordinator Janet Conti Opens in new window Description This subject will provide students with the skills to psychologically assess and diagnose a range of psychological disorders in adults and in children that are presented in psychological practice.  This subject will be complemented by 102400 Assessment: Cognitive Functions in the second semester which will focus more on cognitive assessments. Upon completion of this subject, students will have an understanding of a range of assessment tools, their psychometric qualities, application and utility in a psychological practice. They will also develop skills in applying and interpreting assessment tools and how those tools may aid diagnostic and therapeutic processes. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Restricted to Postgraduate students with an APAC accredited 4 year psychology sequence. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define the principle of clinical assessment.
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of assessment application at diagnostic and therapeutic levels.
Compare a range of different assessment tools, their psychometric properties and application
Apply knowledge of assessment tools across a range of diagnostic and therapeutic contexts
Demonstrate skills in conducting and interpreting assessment.
Formulate and appropriately communication assessment results to clients and other professionals. Subject Content Principles of Clinical Assessment
Assessing Mood Disorders and Self-Harm Risk
Assessing Anxiety Disorders
Assessing Child Behavioural and Emotional Functioning
Assessing OCD and Related Disorders
Assessing Personality and Aptitudes
Assessing Chronic Pain and Physical Disability
Assessing Trauma & Related Disorders Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Interview: Assessment 30 minutes 30 Y Individual   GP Assessment Report 2,000 words 20 Y Individual   Final Exam: Short-answer Questions Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV)