Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 7006 Crime Scene Investigation (PG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301131 Coordinator Mark Williams Opens in new window Description A substantial amount of forensic evidence used in the prosecution of criminal cases is initially established at the crime scene. Recognising, detecting, recovering, preserving and recording this evidence forms a critical function within forensic science and criminal investigation. This subject explores the main aspects of crime scene investigation, including: crime scene processes, recognition of evidence, documentation of crime scenes, evidence detection and enhancement, maintaining evidence integrity, and bloodstain pattern analysis. It also covers professional practices associated with evidence handling and case file management. School Science Discipline Forensic Science Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the Master of Forensic Science, the Graduate Diploma in Forensic Science, or the Graduate Certificate in Forensic Science. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of general science as obtained via an undergraduate science degree (with completion of chemistry and biology subjects highly recommended). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe the general approach to crime scene examination.
Appreciate the range of evidence types that may be present at a crime scene and describe appropriate search, recovery and preservation methods for each evidence type.
Articulate the requirements of good crime scene photography and case file management practices.
Understand the importance of professional practices associated with maintaining evidence integrity and continuity.
Report evidence and conclusions from crime scene investigations accurately and in an appropriate format. Subject Content 1. Crime Scene Principles
2. Role of the Crime Scene Examiner
3. Crime Scene Photography
4. Fingerprints and DNA Evidence
5. General Physical Evidence
6. Bloodstain Pattern Analysis
7. Specialised Scene Examinations
8. Case File Management and Report Writing Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 8 x 20 min 40 N Individual N  Simulation 1 hour 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 1 hour 25 N Individual N  Participation 1 hour (across the whole unit) 10 N Individual N Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)