Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2006 People, Environment and Occupations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400908 Coordinator Melissa Jammal Opens in new window Description Analysing an individual's participation in meaningful occupations is an essential clinical reasoning process to be mastered by occupational therapists. Therapists must be able to analyse three factors to do so: the person's abilities; the demands of the occupation; and the impact of the environmental context on participation. This subject will facilitate the development of these skills so that students can maximise the person-environment-occupation fit to optimise participation for people with a variety of health challenges or disabilities. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 1001 Co-requisite(s) HLTH 1001 OR
HLTH 1012 Equivalent Subjects LGYA 7691 - Functional Analysis Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy Honours) or 4663 - Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Occupational Therapy. This is a specialty subject offered as a compulsory core subject of the occupational therapy program. It is profession specific, preparing students to practice as an occupational therapist and not relevant as an elective for non-occupational therapy students. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse an individual’s physical, cognitive and psychological abilities for participation in daily occupations
Analyse an individual’s chosen occupations in terms of the physical, cognitive and psychological requirements of performance
Analyse the sequential steps required to complete everyday occupations
Grade occupations and their sequential steps in terms of their complexity
Analyse the impact of the environmental context on occupations performed in everyday life
Examine how the analysis of people, their occupations and environments builds a foundation for intervention planning in occupational therapy practice Subject Content 1. Application of Person-Environment-Occupation models in occupational therapy practice
2. Methods and approaches to analysis and assessment in occupational therapy
3. Analysis of person factors: 4. Analysis of the demands of the occupation: 5. Analysis of the environmental context: 6. Maximising best fit between the person, the occupation and their environment: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1 x completed occupational analysis form/template. There is no specified length for this submission. 30 N Group/Individual N  Professional Task 15 minutes + 500 words 30 N Individual N  Case Study 2,000 words 40 N Group N  Professional Task 1 x confirmation email from NSW Health. There is no specified length for this submission S/U N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Nikki Tulliani Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)