Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 3008 Mortuary Practice Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301394 Coordinator Hayley Green Opens in new window Description This subject introduces the student to processes and techniques used in a forensic mortuary context. Students will undertake activities that prepare them for clinical placement with an operational forensic mortuary setting, which includes a brief placement within a NSW Forensic and Analytical Science Service (FASS) facility or NSW Organ and Tissue Donation Service. Student must have demonstrated full compliance with NSW Health placement requirements in the first year of their candidature before enrolling in this subject and 301128 Advanced Mortuary Practice. This subject, together with completion of 301128 Advanced Mortuary Practice is essential for graduates of this course seeking employment as a forensic mortuary technician with FASS. School Science Discipline Pathology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) NATS 2004 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 3733 Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) and successfully completed 120 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply principles of safe work practice
Demonstrate knowledge of key Acts, policies and procedures directly related to a forensic mortuary facility
Reflect on the role of the forensic mortuary technician
Demonstrate professional behaviours, communication skills and self management
Apply beginning level skills in forensic mortuary practices
Appraise practice experiences and skills
Produce industry relevant documentation for forensic mortuary practice Subject Content Professional attitudes and behaviour
Professional roles and relationships
Professional communication skills
Legislative requirements related to practice
Professional ethics
Safe work practices
Scope of mortuary practice
Forensic mortuary practice skills Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Contact your School for further details. Resources are also available on the Placement Hub website. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words each  30 N Individual N  Report 5-10 pages double spaced 20 N Group N  Professional Placement Performance 7-14 hours of placement at a forensic mortuary facility  S/U Y Individual Y  Final Exam 2 hrs 50 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Hayley Green Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Medical Science (Forensic Mortuary Practice) (3733) Diploma in General Science (exit only) (7185) Medical Studies (MEDI) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)