Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 4002 Energy Efficiency in Buildings Credit Points 10 Coordinator Mohammad Reza Razavi Opens in new window Description This subject builds on students' basic knowledge of architecture, construction, and environmental science to introduce principles of architectural sustainability and building science. Students are involved in activities developing essential knowledge of a building’s energy efficiency through the application of thermal, lighting, and acoustic design. This enables them to incorporate the construction strategies necessary to achieve indoor environmental quality and improve building users' comfort. The abilities that students develop in this subject will be appealing to organisations looking to expand optimisation and renewable energy strategies. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Architecture Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 4 subject Pre-requisite(s) BLDG 1009
BLDG 1015 Equivalent Subjects CIVL 4003 Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Evaluate the energy performance of the building envelope. 
Assess appropriate environmental systems’ integration for thermal, lighting, and acoustics comfort in architecture.
Determine basic parameters of heating, lighting and sound management in buildings using mathematical models.
Mitigate GHG emissions and improve human comfort through various passive design strategies in architecture. 
Analyse geographical context for optimising IEQ-integrated architectural design considering the climatic elements.
Recommend renewable energy sources appropriate to a range of building types. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words plus diagrams 40 N Individual N  Case Study 2000 words plus diagrams, photos, and drawings 20 N Group N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Mohammad Reza Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Architectural Design (3753)