Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 5008 Law and Public Policy Credit Points 10 Coordinator Robert Mezyk Opens in new window Description This subject examines the link between law, public policy and social reform and adopts a range of social, political and legal perspectives to examine the policy process and its interaction with law. It invites students to critically engage, study and reflect on discourse and activism around selected case studies involving contemporary issues in public law and policy. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 7057 Government and Public Law Incompatible Subjects LAWS 3044 Law and Public Policy (Development and Implementation) Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program to register in this subject. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Critically evaluate the key concepts and issues in public policy development and implementation in selected relevant case studies.
Analyse the social and political processes that underpin legal change from an interdisciplinary perspective.
Communicate in a clear, persuasive, and logical style on complex legal and policy issues using different media as appropriate for diverse audiences. Subject Content Social and political dynamics of change: lessons from political science and sociology
Approaches to the relationship between law and public policy
Case Studies on contemporary issues related to law and public policy Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Critical Review 1,500 words 30 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutes maximum 30 N Group/Individual N  Professional Task 2,500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Human Rights Law, minor (0347) Juris Doctor (2826) Law (LAWS) Master of Laws (2824)