Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 7015 Clinical Teaching for Learning Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400974 Coordinator Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window Description This subject prepares nurse educators, clinical facilitators and clinicians for their role as a  clinical teacher. Students will identify learner needs to create, plan and implement evidence based teaching interventions and evaluation strategies. Theoretically informed teaching and learning frameworks will be drawn upon in the subject to enable students to develop their knowledge and skills as a clinical teacher in their workplace. The subject utilises an authentic assessment approach to enable students to develop expertise with clinical teaching, student learning and program evaluation. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Nursing, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Critically analyse the advantages and disadvantages for teaching and learning in the clinical practice  workplace environment.
Apply an integrated understanding of clinical teaching and supervision frameworks when creating learner centred experiences.  
Appraise the strategies and use of resources involved with planning, preparation and implementation of a clinical teaching session.
Justify the use of emerging technologies and their application to teaching and learning in the clinical setting. 
Critically reflect on feedback from learners and own performance with clinical teaching to gain insight into the quality of teaching and learning experienced by participants.
Adapts changes to the clinical teaching plan based on feedback from learners and own critical reflections.
Justify different approaches taken to clinical teaching /program evaluation and when each should be used. Subject Content Clinical teaching & learning contexts.
The clinical workplace as a learning environment
Teaching and learning strategies to facilitate learning
Applying learner centred approaches to clinical teaching
Lesson planning, implementation and evaluation
Emerging technologies in teaching and learning and their application
Workplace assessments strategies.
Critical reflection processes
The Role of Simulation Pedagogies in Clinical Teaching and Learning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y  Essay 2,500 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sharon Jacobs Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Clinical Teaching, Testamur Major (T014) Graduate Diploma in Nursing (4723) Master of Child and Family Health (Karitane) (4713) Nursing (NURS)