Academic Handbook Current Edition PERF 1025 Sound Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102759 Coordinator Brendan Smyly Opens in new window Description The subject builds on the conceptual and practical work presented in Music Production, deepening students' understanding of technology in contemporary music and media arts practice. Students will study the digital field recording for sound design and composition, the basic principles of sound synthesis procedures and musical acoustics, and creative sound design and synthesiser patch editing. Technical concepts are contextualised within a critical survey of contemporary music and sound design practice. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Music Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) PERF 1009 OR
PERF 1014 Equivalent Subjects PERF 1006 - Digital Musics 2 - Studio and Soundscape PERF 1019 - Sound Synthesis and the Sound Environment PERF 1018 - Sound Design Assumed Knowledge Ability to understand basic acoustics and technical terminology; ability to conduct effective stereo audio recording; ability to operate simple MIDI systems; ability to operate simple audio mixing consoles; ability to critically analyse electroacoustic sound and music works at a basic level. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply basic musical acoustics terminology and sound synthesis concepts and methods.
Design sounds using synthesiser patch editing.
Incorporate basic DAW protocols and tools, including audio libraries, MIDI interface, in mixing and mastering processes.
Explore and use sound as a narrative tool and artistic palette.
Record, edit and manipulate sound samples for use in sound design. Subject Content Practical and theoretical examinations of digital audio workstations.
Practical and theoretical examinations of field recording techniques for sound design.
Practical and theoretical examinations of musical acoustics, sound synthesis and synthesiser patch editing for sound design.
Critical listening and examination of contemporary music and sound design practice. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 3 minutes 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 5 - 10 minutes 40 N Individual N  Quiz 10 minutes 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Brendan Smyly Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Music (1659) Bachelor of Music (Dean's Scholars) (1738) Bachelor of Music/Bachelor of Creative Industries (1841) Music, Major (0209) Performing Arts (PERF) Sound Production, Minor (0242)