Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3011 Ethical Leadership Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102250 Coordinator Robert Salama Opens in new window Description This subject focuses on major ethical theories, challenges, and concepts in a cross disciplinary environment. Students' knowledge and understanding of ethics will be further developed through interdisciplinary lenses on critical ethical thinking and decision-making. Students will be required to analyse ethical frameworks and systemic failure to discuss and reflect on various cross disciplinary challenges in diverse settings. By applying ethical concepts to personal journeys as citizen scholars and future professionals, students will develop their own ethical framework and gain skills required for future success as emergent leaders. School Social Sciences Discipline Society and Culture, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must have successfully completed 40 credit points of study in their course with a minimum GPA of 5.0 to enrol in this unit. Students who are enrolled in the Bachelor of Creative Leadership (BCL) must enrol in the unit under the BCL. Enrolment in the unit for students enrolled in the BCL is at the discretion of the Academy or the Director of Academic Program. Learning Outcomes 1. Apply major theories and concepts of ethical leadership to ethical decision making and leadership approaches from various disciplinary perspectives.
2. Evaluate the contributions of various disciplines to contemporary discourse on ethical leadership and decision making.
3. Critically examine the key challenges and dilemmas that impact ethical decision making for organisations and leaders.
4. Synthesise ways of thinking about ethical decision making and leadership in creating an ethical framework inherent to personal and professional goals. Subject Content 1. Ethics from a cross disciplinary perspective.
2. Ethical frameworks: values, morals, and ethics.
3. Major philosophical, theological, psychological, and sociological perspectives.
4. Ethical leadership and decision making: Developing a framework and taking responsibility.
5. Natural Law and Moral Law: Foundations of public freedoms.
6. Social justice and the common good: Ethics of justice and ethics of care. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Reflection 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Portfolio 2,000 words 20 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Robert Salama Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (1943) Bachelor of Creative Leadership (8127) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Policing (Leadership Program) (1734) Bachelor of Social Science (Advanced) (1733) Creative Leadership, Minor (0286) Other Society and Culture (CULT) Personal Innovation, Minor (0284) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)