Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 7026 Legal Interpreting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100916 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description Legal interpreting is a highly complex process that requires specialised training in interpreting techniques, litigation tactics, legal language and the legal system. This subject is a compulsory subject for students in key postgraduate courses in Interpreting and Translation course. It can also be offered to practising interpreters who wish to improve and perfect their knowledge and skills in legal interpreting. It aims to provide students with the theoretical background and the opportunity to develop the interpreting skills necessary to operate at the NAATI professional level as a court interpreter. Lectures are held in English for students of all languages. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin, Spanish, Korean and Vietnamese. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 3384 - Legal Interpreting Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge Bilingual competence in English and one of the languages offered by the School for the interpreting and translation programs. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: interpret accurately in simulated court hearing situations in the consecutive mode
interpret accurately over the phone or via video-link in legal settings
sight translate court documents and interpret simultaneously in a simulated court situation in the whispering mode and in a simulated triangular situation in a legal conference in the dialogue mode.
demonstrate essential background knowledge of the Australian legal system.
understand and use essential legal vocabulary.
demonstrate full awareness of cross cultural and cross linguistic differences and their relevance in the context of court interpreting.
demonstrate understanding of the complexity of the courtroom language, including question tactics and the importance of testimony style.
integrate theory into practice. Subject Content 1. Theory and practice of dialogue interpreting in the legal setting.
2. Theory and practice of consecutive interpreting in the legal setting.
3. Theory and practice of sight translation of legal documents.
4. Theory and practice of simultaneous whispering interpreting in the courtroom.
5. Theory and practice of telephone and video-link interpreting in the legal setting.
6. Essential background concepts and vocabulary of the Australian legal system.
7. The language and strategic use of courtroom questions and their significance to interpreting.
8. The language of courtroom testimony and its significance to interpreting.
9. Essential concepts concerned with cross cultural and cross linguistic communication. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 1) 5 minutes each; 2) 800 words; 3) 10 minutes presentation plus 5 minutes questions 20 N Individual N  Quiz 15 minutes each 20 N Individual N  Viva Voce 1) 30-40 minutes; 2) 15 mins each; 3) 1 hour 60 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Interpreting and Translation (1602) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting (1775) Graduate Diploma in Interpreting Studies (exit only) (1778) Language and Literature (LANG) Master of Arts Translation and Interpreting Studies (1780) Master of Interpreting and Translation (1777)