Academic Handbook Current Edition BEHV 7003 Assessment: Cognitive Functions Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102400 Coordinator Tania Perich Opens in new window Description This subject provides a comprehensive introduction to the cognitive psychological assessment of children, adolescents and adults. It is designed to assist students in the professional psychology programs to develop theoretical knowledge and practical skills in the cognitive assessment of clients. Students will become familiar with the current theoretical and empirical foundations of psychological assessment, and the application of these theories and research findings to assessment practice in empirically valid and culturally responsive ways. Students will be introduced to contemporary practice in the assessment of cognition, personality and behaviour. Training in the administration of key instruments will be provided. Students will be instructed in the integration of assessment data into clinically-useful reports, including inter-disciplinary communication. Different approaches to psychological assessment will be compared and evaluated. Ethical and professional issues in psychological assessment will be discussed. School Psychology Discipline Psychology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BEHV 7026 - Psychological Assessment LGYA 1196 - Psychological Assessment 1 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 1812 Master of Clinical Psychology or 1814 Master of Professional Psychology. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Define the theoretical and empirical foundations of psychological assessment (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.16, 4.2.1ii)
Critically evaluate psychological tests, including their application in culturally responsive ways (APAC GA: 3.2, 3.16, 4.2.1ii)
Examine ethical issues in psychological assessment (APAC GA: 3.12)
Show knowledge in appropriate selection of assessment methods and measures (APAC GA: 3.4, 3.6, 4.2.2ii)
Demonstrate skills in conducting and interpreting major measures of child and adult intelligence, achievement and other cognitive domains (APAC GA: 3.4, 3.6, 3.14, 3.15, 4.2.2ii)
Formulate and appropriately communicate assessment results to clients and other professionals (APAC GA: 3.8, 3.10, 4.2.2iii) Subject Content 1. Theories, models and methods in psychological assessment 
2. Intelligence and cognitive systems 
3. Intellectual assessment: WAIS-IV, WISC-V and exposure to other tests of intellectual functioning 
4. Assessment of academic achievement: WIAT-II, NARA-III and other measures 
5. Assessment of memory, executive functioning and other cognitive functions: WMS-IV, CVLT, and other measures 
6. Assessment of behaviour, emotion and personality (e.g., MMPI, NEO-PI and ADIS) 
7. Observational methods 
8. Psychometric principles and methods 
9. Developmental and acquired cognitive disorders 
10. Report writing 
11. Professional and ethical issues in assessment, including application of psychological testing and assessment in culturally responsive ways. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical Exam 1 hour in total 30 Y Individual Y  Report 2,000 words 30 Y Individual Y  Short Answer 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Tania Perich Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Tania Perich Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Behavioural Science (BEHV) Master of Clinical Psychology (1812) Master of Professional Psychology (1814)