Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3054 Japanese 304: Discourse in Japanese Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101970 Coordinator Xiangdong Liu Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to enable post-intermediate students of Japanese to learn and practice spoken Japanese at an advanced level. Students will explore Japanese discourse styles and discourse strategies in a range of situations, registers and levels of formality. In addition to the essential readings, materials drawn from educational videos, feature films, television dramas, news programs and language corpus will be used for class discussions and as data for analysis. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 0082 - Japanese 304 Discourse in Japanese Assumed Knowledge Japanese 203 and Japanese 204 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes demonstrate knowledge of a range of Japanese discourse styles;
analyse Japanese discourse from viewpoints such as identity, gender, politeness and level of formality;
explain the discourse functions of ellipsis and euphemism;
identify main functions of Japanese discourse particles and some other discourse markers;
apply their knowledge about Japanese discourse to produce the most appropriate utterances in a given situation including formal and informal talk with a friend or colleague, dealing with a customer, speaking at a job interview, etc. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 4,000 Japanese characters 40 N Individual Y  Presentation Equivalent to 4,000 Japanese characters 30 N Individual Y  Report Equivalent to 4,000 Japanese characters 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG)