Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 2006 Culture, Diversity and Health (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700072 Coordinator Charlise Bennett Opens in new window Description This subject introduces skills for understanding and engaging effectively with the culturally and socially diverse world in which we live and work. Indigenous Australia is a major theme and students will gain an appreciation of the achievements and needs of Indigenous Australians. The subject examines cultural safety more broadly and puts these issues in the context of health professionals working in multi-cultural settings and handling culturally different health philosophies and practices. Cultural diversity is increasingly recognised as a major issue in the delivery of health care and a major determinant of Indigenous health. School Health Sciences Discipline Public Health, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 2005 - Culture Diversity and Health Restrictions Students must be enrolled at Western Sydney, The College unless specific permission has been granted by the School of Science and Health. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply knowledge regarding equity, culture and diversity to their studies and professional behaviour as future health science practitioners
Examine the experience of health, wellness, health services and health outcomes from an indigenous perspective
Identify the role of social determinants of health across diverse populations
Describe the health needs of a range of marginalised Australians including; Indigenous Australians, Australians of a culturally or linguistically diverse backgrounds, sexually diverse Australians, ageing Australians and Australians living with disability
Examine approaches to cultural safety in health science practice Subject Content -Introduction to the unit:
oWhat are culture, diversity and identity?
oExplore the cultural/social/ethnic diversity of the class
oHow do health care professionals approach diversity?
oIntroduce cultures of health and health care
-The Australian context Indigenous Australia:
oOverview of the history of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australia and the concept of Indigenous identities
-The cultures of health and health care:
oReview of dominant health culture in Australia
oUnderstanding Western and Eastern health models
-The Australian context Australians of Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Backgrounds (CALD):
oOverview of the history of migration to Australia and the contemporary context of Australian 'multiculturalism'
oHealth needs of CALD Australians
-Segregation as a fundamental cause of ethnic disparities in health:
oDiscrimination and health: causes, consequences and potential solutions
oReligious difference in Australia
-Human rights and health literacy:
oWhat are human rights?
oHuman Rights in Australia
oWhat rights are covered to promote equity?
oHow can human rights improve health literacy?
-Intro Cultural Competency:
oIntroduction to cultural competence
oCultural competency as a toolkit for cultural safety
-Cultural Safety:
oWhat is cultural safety
oWhy is it important?
-Cultural Competency in Pract Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 20 mins 30 N Group N  Presentation Peer participation mark 10 N Individual N  Report 1000 words 30 N Individual N  Quiz 45 min 20 N Individual N  Participation 10 weeks 10 N Individual N Teaching Periods Term 2 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Despina Kamper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Nirimba Education Precinct On-site Subject Contact Despina Kamper Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Clinical Sciences, Testamur Major (T109) Diploma in Health Science (7018) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (7088) Diploma in Health Science (Health and Physical Education) Extended (7143) Diploma in Health Science Extended (7142) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (6000) Diploma in Health Science/Bachelor of Health Science (Health and Physical Education) (6001) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Health Services Management, Testamur Major (T019) Public Health (PUBH) Public Health, Testamur Major (T021) Recreational Therapy, Testamur Major (T110)