Academic Handbook Current Edition COMM 2052 Documentary: Factual Screen Media Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102830 Coordinator Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window Description Documentary is an evolving area that continues to flux and change. Due to developments in media distribution, technological change and convergence, audiences are increasingly engaging with factual content in new and innovative ways. This subject explores both conceptual and production approaches to documentary in various forms. Students are introduced to key documentary histories and modes and examine a range of traditional and evolving practices including animated, online interactive and transmedia documentary outcomes. Students produce a short documentary project and in doing so develop professional skills and approaches to production roles as well as ethical relationships and responsibilities with participants and topics. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Audio Visual Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) COMM 1041 - Screen Media Fundamentals Co-requisite(s) - Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss the development of documentary histories, forms, concepts and production techniques.
Articulate a range of ways in which evolving forms and directions in documentary production influence current documentary media.
Research and write a documentary proposal.
Discuss the ways ethical issues related to documentary subjects and topics are reflected in documentary production.
Develop and produce a short documentary project.
Integrate theoretical and practical knowledge in the reflective analysis of content creation and production roles. Subject Content Documentary histories and concepts
Evolving documentary forms (animated, online interactive, transmedia)
Documentary research and proposal writing skills
Documentary practice (preproduction to postproduction)
Ethical considerations and responsibilities involved with working with subjects and topics
Reflective practice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 5 multiple choice quizzes (10 questions per quiz) 10 N Individual Y  Proposal 2,000 words or equivalent 30 N Group/Individual Y  Applied Project Up to 10 minutes 30 N Group Y  Reflection 1,500 words or equivalent 30 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Maryella Hatfield Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (2752) Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (1791) Communication and Media (COMM) Diploma in Communication/Bachelor of Screen Media (Arts and Production) (6015) Screen Media, Major (0268) Screen Media, Minor (0268) ​Bachelor of Communication/Bachelor of Laws (Honours) (2833)