Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 3015 Australian History Around Us Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102516 Coordinator Helen Bones Opens in new window Description Historians are detectives, searching for clues and unravelling the puzzles of the past. A walk down your local street holds many clues about the history of a local area - from the name of the street, the architecture of the buildings, the trees planted by the road, even the new building that indicates a recent change. Local studies are used as the foundation for socio-economic studies across many disciplines while an understanding of local history contributes to establishing personal and community identities. In this subject students will learn research skills to uncover the lives of people from the past, re-imagine familiar places and consider events long forgotten that happened in the streets of their suburbs. The final assignment is a chance to turn these discoveries into a new history for their community. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects HUMN 3038 - Exploring Local History Restrictions Successful completion of 60 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Locate historical sources about Australian places
Interpret historical sources relating to a particular locality
Research people, places and events in the past
Explain the historical processes shaping the development of localities
Integrate a variety of historical resources into a historical narrative Subject Content Local history and national histories
Family history and community history
Observing signs of the past ?walking the streets, wandering the cemeteries
Hearing the past ? using oral histories
Investigating local history ?public records; maps and photographs
Using digital records ? tracing people and places
Investigating communities in the past ? getting around; earning a living; living locally - education, religion, sport and entertainment
Retrieving hidden or forgotten pasts
Telling the story - writing and exhibiting local history Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio of local history resources 1,000 words 30 N Individual   Presentation of project plan (a/v on line) 5 minutes/500 words 20 N Individual   Local history project report  3,000 words 50 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject History and Political Thought, Major (0013) History and Political Thought, Minor (0013) Modern History, Major (0130) Modern History, Minor (0130) Secondary Modern History Education, Major (0351) Secondary Teaching, Major (0164) Studies in Human Society (HUMN)