Academic Handbook Current Edition NATS 3009 Consumer Issues in Nutrition Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300928 Coordinator Li Li Opens in new window Description This subject explores current food and nutrition issues. It introduces students to the factors that influence public health nutrition and explores (a) the contribution food systems and food security makes to consumer wellbeing; (b) the changing global marketplace and the impact of globalisation on food security and ecological sustainability; and (c) the complex inter-connections between government policy, globalisation, consumerism and human health. Students will assess nutritional status from available data and explore the role of community food systems. Students will also be introduced to social research methods and plan a social research study to address a nutrition related issue. School Science Discipline Food Science and Biotechnology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects NATS 2009 - Consumer Issues in Nutrition Assumed Knowledge An understanding of human nutrition and health. Computer literacy. Learning Outcomes Acquire, analyse and profile demographic data of a select geographic community
Document a food mapping exercise of a select community
Evaluate the nutritional status of a select geographic community, considering food security, using current research
Identify factors that influence the health and wellbeing of individuals and communities including the impact of current food and public health policy and practice on wellbeing from both an individual and community perspective
Demonstrate skills in social research planning and design, following completion of a literature review requiring the critical appraisal of current food and nutrition health research
Demonstrate competencies in oral and written communication skills including skills in scientific presentations
Critique current issues affecting nutritional status across a range of individuals, including indigenous Australians Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group N  Report 1,500 words 35 N Individual N  Proposal 2,000 words 35 N Individual N Structures that include subject Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS)