Academic Handbook Current Edition PUBH 3022 Advances and Challenges in Health Promotion Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401380 Coordinator Anna Spencer Opens in new window Description This subject presents current advances and challenges in health promotion. Advances in technology are critiqued with regards to their positive and negative contribution to health promotion.  This subject also reviews social marketing strategies and how these can be used in health promotion campaigns. Complexities in working with vulnerable communities in different settings are explored including schools, workplaces, communities (including Indigenous, culturally and linguistically diverse, refugee and homeless groups), healthcare settings, rural/remote areas and prisons. New patterns in health and their challenges are covered. Ethical and political considerations in health promotion are also included. School Health Sciences Discipline Health Promotion Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) PUBH 3026 AND
PUBH 1010 Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Communicate effectively and act ethically and professionally in health promotion practice;
Justify the elements of best practice in health promotion and recommend how these elements can be applied to health promotion practice;
Apply skills in grant writing to an area of health promotion advancement;
Create a social marketing campaign to target a current challenge in health promotion;
Critically analyse the ethical values and principles underpinning health promotion;
Critically appraise issues of power and politics in health promotion policy and practice; Subject Content 1. Health Promotion Competencies
2. Marketing HP programs
3. Sustainability issues and use of media and other forms of disseminating information
4. New patterns of health in Australia and globally and their challenges
5. Advances and challenges in settings-based approaches in HP
6. Grant writing
7. Analyse ethical dilemmas in current health promotion
8. Issues of politics and power in health and health promotion Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project 500 words 30 N Individual N  Proposal 1,500 words 40 N Individual N  Presentation 3 minutes plus 2 minutes for questions 30 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Anna Spencer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Anna Spencer Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Health Promotion Studies, Major (0298) Health Promotion, Major (0052) Health Promotion, Minor (0052) Health Promotion, Testamur Major (T018) Public Health (PUBH)