Academic Handbook Current Edition BLDG 7003 Building Studies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300716 Coordinator Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window Description This subject describes and analyses the technological, socio-economic and sustainability factors that influence the building industry. The topics include advances in contemporary issues affecting sustainability and energy conservation, access and adaptable housing, safety in special areas and building design in accordance with the relevant legislative requirements. Use of assessment tools for sustainability is covered. Discussions are also made on development management, the roles and the relationship between building owners /occupiers, developers and building surveyors. School Eng, Design & Built Env Discipline Building Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 5426 - Building Studies Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge This subject assumes that the student has undertaken undergraduate study in building surveying, planning or related areas or has gained the equivalent building construction knowledge by working in the construction industry in an appropriate capacity for at least four years. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Describe current research and advances in building industry, including access, energy efficiency and safety.
Describe the impact and effect of the regulatory system on contemporary building issues such as access, energy efficiency and safety provisions.
Critically analyse and generate complex building solutions against the requirements for sustainability, access and safety.
Explain the roles and the relationship between building owners/occupiers, developers and building surveyors in the operation and maintenance of buildings. Subject Content The impact and effect of regulatory bodies on occupant health and amenity in the building industry.
Philosophy, cultural significance and cost-effectiveness of energy conservation and its application to building construction.
Sustainable design processes and typical features of sustainable design and construction.
Housing design, sustainability and energy efficiency assessment tools, such as BASIX.
Sustainability and NCC requirements for Class 2 to 9 - overview of Section J.
NCC requirements for thermal insulation and lighting in building systems
Current research and advances in building systems relating to energy efficiency and sustainability
Access and arrangements for disability and adaptability for older persons.
Accessibility requirements for car parking and pools.
Facilitation of access and movement in buildings.
Principles and practice for pool safety and heating/pumping provisions.
The roles and the relationship between building owners/occupiers, developers and building surveyors in the operation and maintenance of buildings. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 2,500 words  30 N Individual Y  Report 2,500 words  30 N Individual Y  Essay 3,000 words  40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Sameera Wijesiri Pathirana Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Building (BLDG) Graduate Certificate in Building Surveying (3790) Graduate Diploma in Building Surveying (3789) Master of Building Surveying (3703) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Property Investment and Development (2813)