Academic Handbook Current Edition BUSM 7008 Business Internship Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 200769 Coordinator Laurel Jackson Opens in new window Description The Business Internship is designed for students who want to gain industry experience and further their studies through a 10-week business internship. This Business Internship subject is based on a project style subject which requires students to undertake a research project in their chosen field whilst attending an industry based internship. School Business Discipline Business And Management Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects BUSM 7070 - Masters Project Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate Business program and must have successfully completed 50% of subjects in their approved program of study. Permission of the Director of Academic Program is required before undertaking this subject. Assumed Knowledge Understanding of the business environment and organisational structures, business communications skills, business strategy, as well as substantial knowledge in the major discipline area. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate the links between theory and practical work environments by using appropriate theoretical frameworks to analyse novel workplace situations;
Develop your personal and professional communication and presentation skills;
Gain an understanding of workplace culture and identify behavioural characteristics necessary for working in a collegial work environment. Subject Content Students will work in conjunction with the subject Coordinator and an academic supervisor who is an academic expert in their area of specialisation. All internships must be approved by the subject Coordinator prior to commencing. The internship will involve a literature review, application of theory and techniques, methodological investigation and recommendations. Internships will be industry based and directly relevant to the student?fs area of interest. Students will meet with their Supervisor regularly throughout the study period and with the subject Coordinator, in a class environment, as defined by the subject guidelines. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection Consists of Report 1,000 words (20%) and Presentation 10%, 10 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Presentation 20 minutes  20 N Individual Y  Report 4,000 words  50 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Quarter 1 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 2 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 3 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Quarter 4 (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St Hybrid Subject Contact Laurel Jackson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Business and Management (BUSM) Master of Business Analytics (2816) Master of Marketing (2817)