Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 3006 Urban Design Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102070 Coordinator Awais Piracha Opens in new window Description The subject aims to provide students with an understanding of the nature, role and relevance of urban design. It will examine the issue of urban design at both the micro and macro scale. It also aims to promote awareness of, and sensitivity to, design considerations, and to enable students to critically evaluate urban spaces and places.  A key feature of the course will be the development of the graphical communication skills of students. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects ARCH 3001 - An Introduction to Urban Design LGYA 1333 - Local Planning Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Understand the issues and concepts used by urban design professionals;
Develop design criteria and plans for public spaces;
Identify cultural heritage criteria in urban design, and address issues for appropriate protection and/or development of heritage;
Determine the environmental impacts of urban design, and address issues for appropriate environmental mitigation and/or enhancement;
Determine the social contexts of urban design, and address issues of social justice and community empowerment. Subject Content Urban utopias: garden cities to new urbanism
Importance of streetscape design and neighbourhood character
Topography, social context, history and design
The environmental impacts of urban design
Designing public realms: congregation and assembly
Designing boundaries: exclusive and inclusive design
Designing across the public / private binary
Designing transit spaces: assisting with flows and routes
Defensive spaces
Crime prevention through design Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Report 1000 words 35 N Individual N  Report 1500 words 30 N Individual N  Participation  35 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Awais Piracha Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Planning (Pathway to Master of Urban Management and Planning) (1732)