Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 3073 Elder Law Industry Placement Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201020 Coordinator Elen Seymour Opens in new window Description This elective work integrated learning subject builds on the knowledge base of 200632 Elder Law to provide work experience for later year Law students. Students who have successfully completed 200632 Elder Law will be eligible to apply for this industry experience. The placement will consist of a full time ten day placement at selected industry workplaces with supervision by experienced legal practitioners. The subject will provide students with real-life work experiences in the legal issues associated with the practice of elder law and with an appreciation of the professional responsibilities essential for a 21st Century legal practitioner. School Law Discipline Law, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) LAWS 3016 Restrictions Places in this subject are limited. Students will be selected based on the following: 1. Submission of a 500 word statement of interest in seeking to undertake the unit; and 2. Completion of a satisfactory joint interview process with the subject Coordinator and representative of Industry Partner. Note: the School of Law will manually enrol a list of approved students following an Expression of Interest process. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the operation of Elder Law in practical contexts.
Propose solutions to Elder Law related client problems and issues in practical contexts.
Perform legal writing tasks within a practical legal and Elder Law context
Reflect on professional development experiences and needs. Subject Content 1. Elder law in practical contexts.
2. Elder law related client problems, issues and solutions.
3. Practical legal writing tasks in the Elder law operational context.
4. Researching practical issues and solutions
5. Professional development: reflection on experiences and needs.
Students will undertake a ten-day placement in an Elder Law industry practice during which students will be engaged in the evaluation and production of Elder Law legal service tasks that may include the preparation of an application to the Guardianship Division of the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT) for a financial management order, guardianship orders or reviews of powers of attorney within a practical legal and Elder Law context. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Professional Placement Performance 10 days 30 Y Individual Y  Reflection 500 words 10 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Law (LAWS)