Academic Handbook Current Edition ENVL 2006 Environmental Planning and Climate Change Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 301390 Coordinator Ian Wright Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to environmental planning in local and state government and in particular the role of planning in protecting the natural environment, enhancing population health and/or encouraging sustainable development practices. Students focus on goal-setting for environmental protection and then explore how planning policy can assist with achieving these goals.  Current metropolitan planning and strategy is examined using the Metropolitan Strategy for Sydney as the primary case study. The subject scopes environmental planning policies introduced by state, local and Commonwealth governments to adapt to climate induced impacts on the environment and on community health and well being. School Science Discipline Environmental Studies, Not Elsewhere Classified. Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects PUBH 3009 - Environmental Planning PUBH 2008 - Environmental Planning Climate Change Incompatible Subjects NATS 2020 - Healthy Built Environments Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Explain Commonwealth, state and local environmental planning law and policy;
Research and set appropriate environmental planning goals for environmental protection and conservation within the built environment context;
Describe key elements of building design for energy efficiency, acoustic comfort and water conservation;
Outline the main components of the Sydney Metropolitan Plan in relation to the projected environment and human health impacts of climate change;
Propose sustainable planning solutions through the application of sustainability policy including BASIX and Part J of the building Code of Australia. Subject Content 1. Environmental planning practice in local and state government;
2. Environmental planning to enhance environmental sustainability and population health and address the emergent and projected human health and environmental sustainability impacts of global climate change;
3. Professional competencies relating to planning and climate change as required by graduate employers and as reflected in professional accreditation criteria;
4. Environmental management opportunities provided by legislation and government policy such as:
a. Environmental Planning and Assessment Act (under review);
b. Applicable State Environmental Planning Policies (SEPPs);
c. Metropolitan Strategy for Sydney;
d. Relevant regional strategies; and
e. climate change policy including sea level rise policy and sustainability policy with reference also given to SEPP (BASIX) and part J of the Building Code of Australia. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Essay 1500 words 30 N Individual Y  Quiz up to 30 mins 30 N Not Known Y  Report 2000 words 40 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Bachelor of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Security (3726) Business, Major (0104) Environment and Sustainability, Major (0169) Environmental Studies (ENVL) Global Climate Change, Major (0168) Natural Science, Major (0213) Social Sciences, Major (0216)