Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5030 PDHPE Curriculum 3 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102887 Coordinator Yasmen Kurtulmus Opens in new window Description In this subject, pre-service teachers will consider the place of Health education in contemporary Australian society and explore programs in Physical Activity and Sports Studies (PASS). They will explore a range of evidence-based approaches for curriculum development and alignment in PASS and to plan for effective teaching and learning, including formative and summative assessment. Pre-service teachers will learn approaches for building knowledge of Health education and how to provide constructive feedback and reporting. This subject will require students to engage in teaching practical skills in areas such as sport, recreational, combat games, physical fitness activities and physical activity for remediation and therapy. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7027 AND
TEAC 7004 AND
TEAC 7032 Restrictions Students in program 1714 must have PDHPE Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of PASS curricula in Stage 5.
Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in the Health curriculum area for senior students.
Demonstrate intercultural understanding through engaging with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander sense of connection to place and kinship groups, and participation in traditional and contemporary physical activity and games.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that extend students’ literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Prepare a suitable range of practical and performance assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design relevant, innovative and authentic teaching programs that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching Health and Sports education in Stage 5 and include opportunities to develop students’ understanding of health concepts.
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of sources in teaching practical lessons and programs.
Critically reflect on Health and Physical Activity education and demonstrate capacity to practically manage behaviour and sensitive issues, including knowledge and understanding of the administrative principles and safety procedures in relation to Health Education. Subject Content What is the nature of the PASS in the early and middle years of secondary education? How is the subject linked to what is taught in primary school and in the senior years of secondary education?
How are current educational policies and priorities with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, addressed in the teaching of the subject?
What is the significance of kinship in relationships and how does a sense of connection to Country/Place for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People enhances health and wellbeing?
n what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the subject?
Why is it necessary to differentiate teaching in the subject? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How do teachers keep students safe during teaching in the subject?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the subject?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance and in particular used towards awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the subject?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about Health and Sport Education? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 2000 Words 50 N Individual N  Portfolio 2000 Words (Portfolio) 50 N Individual N Prescribed Texts New South Wales Standards Authority [NESA]. (2012) Physical Activity and Sports Studies 7-10 Syllabus Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)