Academic Handbook Current Edition NURS 3034 Promoting Mental Health and Wellbeing 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401017 Coordinator Gihane Endrawes Opens in new window Description This subject builds on the foundations of mental health and wellbeing established in earlier subjects. The relationship between stress and vulnerability will be explored within the context of the psychotic disorders schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Students will gain an understanding of how the principles of recovery, introduced in an earlier subject, are applied to caring for people with schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Altered mood, perception, and thinking will be explored and evidence-based assessment tools and biological and psychosocial interventions introduced for facilitating recovery towards mental health and wellbeing. School Nursing & Midwifery Discipline Mental Health Nursing Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Co-requisite(s) NURS 2031 Equivalent Subjects NURS 3024 Mental Health Nursing Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4691 Bachelor of Nursing or 4692 Bachelor of Nursing Graduate Entry or 4780 Bachelor of Nursing - WSU Online. Students must be enrolled in 4780 to enrol in WSU Online Campus subjects. Assumed Knowledge Knowledge related to primary health care, professional communication, behavioural and social sciences, and nursing practice; foundational principles of mental health and wellbeing. Learning Outcomes Apply understanding of the stress-vulnerability model to case scenarios of vulnerable people experiencing schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder
Distinguish between therapeutic and non-therapeutic communication skills in providing care to someone experiencing schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder
Apply the concept of recovery in mental health in relation to the scope of nursing practice
Identify indicators of altered mood, perception, and thinking with someone experiencing schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder
Construct a care plan based on individualised needs of people experiencing schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder
Compare and contrast a range of evidence-based biological (including psychopharmacological) and psychosocial interventions for working with people who experience altered mood, perception, and thinking
Apply ethico-legal concepts in provision of care for people experiencing schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Mental Health Assessment: Video triggered in class assessment Guided short answers 1500 - 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Final Exam – Online 1 hour 50 MCQ's 50 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Nursing (NURS)