Academic Handbook Current Edition CULT 3010 Culture and Crime Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101562 Coordinator Ken Yates Opens in new window Description In 2020 this subject replaced by 102710 - Crime, Media, Culture. Contemporary societies are replete with images of crime, including in fiction, the media, film and television. In this subject we explore this phenomenon through the lens of cultural criminology and its interest in the exciting and adrenaline-inducing aspects of crime. We explore the link between culture and crime by looking at both textual/visual and ethnographic research. This means studying the way crime is experienced as 'thrilling' not only by those who consume it via images but also by those who actually engage in violent and transgressive conduct. This subject examines the relationship between cultural images of crime, the lived experience of criminal activity and its social and cultural impact. School Social Sciences Discipline Criminology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects CULT 3024 - Crime Media Culture Restrictions Successful completion of 80 credit points Assumed Knowledge A basic understanding of foundational criminological theory. Learning Outcomes Demonstrate an understanding of the theoretical accounts and topics of research that are part of Cultural Criminology.
Make appropriate links between theoretical accounts and independent research.
Demonstrate the capacity to disseminate theoretical and empirical evidence of the links between culture and crime to a professional audience.
Critically assess cultural depiction of crime, criminals and the criminal justice system
Evaluate the value of textual analysis and ethnographic research for the development of criminal justice policy. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 3 quizzes of 5 questions each (at least one quiz to be submitted) 15 N Individual Y  Professional Task 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Essay 2,000 words 45 N Individual Y Structures that include subject Other Society and Culture (CULT)