Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1013 Introduction to Interpreting Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100194 Coordinator Margot Seligmann Opens in new window Description This is a core subject for students in the Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) course and an elective foundation subject for language key field of study in the BA. It introduces students to the theory and practice of Interpreting. Lectures are held in English for students of all the languages available. The tutorials are language specific in Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin or Spanish. This subject requires native or near-native proficiency in English and one of the languages offered in the subject. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYB 2089 - Interpreting 1 LGYB 2090 - Interpreting 2 LGYB 2851 - Introduction to Interpreting Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes apply the insights of linguistic theories that relate to the practice of interpreting;
resolve issues of accuracy and equivalence, including register equivalence and the difficulties and controversies surrounding it;
recognise cross-cultural differences that influence and are reflected in the use of language;
explain the different roles of the interpreter according to type of interpreting;
demonstrate proficiency in dialogue interpreting, chuchotage, consecutive interpreting and sight translation, at an introductory level in different settings;
demonstrate effective note-taking skills for dialogue and consecutive interpreting; and
identify significant aspects of the interpreting profession in Australia, NAATI qualifications, and ethics of the profession. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 5-10 minutes per student per task 40 N Individual Y  Practical Exam TBA 40 N Individual Y  End-of-session Exam 1 hour in class 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Margot Seligmann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Margot Seligmann Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Japanese, Major (0021) Japanese, Minor (0021) Language and Literature (LANG) Linguistics, Major (0022)