Academic Handbook Current Edition ARCH 7020 Cool Green Cities Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102853 Coordinator Sebastian Pfautsch Opens in new window Description Climate change, urban expansion and densification result in hotter microclimates and loss of green infrastructure. The increasing frequency and severity of heatwaves, floods and droughts require changes to how we design and retrofit existing neighbourhoods and build new suburbs. Contemporary urban planning and design principles recognise blue and green infrastructure as a 'must have'. Blue and green infrastructure is key to building cool and resilient cities capable of functioning well within the social, environmental and economic challenges of the 21st century. This subject provides knowledge about what it takes to deliver cool green cities. Focusing on practical applications at precinct or suburb scale, it enables students to implement learned principles in their professional practice. School Social Sciences Discipline Urban Design and Regional Planning Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects ARCH 7013 - Green Urbanscapes Bio-physical Functions and Services Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Discuss complex functional links between services provided by urban ecosystems and how climate change may alter these functions.
Examine current and anticipated extent of urban ecosystems in metropolitan areas.
Evaluate biophysical dimensions of environmental impacts from urban development to critically assess/apply strategies for managing and developing urban regions.
Integrate ecological benefits and economic incentives of urban blue and green infrastructure into planning processes for sustainable urban development. Subject Content Urban ecosystems and urban planning
Blue and green urban infrastructure
Threatened urban ecosystems and strategic conservation planning
Urban cooling
Principles of Biophilia for contemporary, sustainable urban planning Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 500 words 20 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 20 N Group Y  Proposal 1,000 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes
(equiv. to 500 words)
 20 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Sebastian Pfautsch Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Architecture and Urban Envir. (ARCH) Bachelor of Research Studies (8083) Construction, Testamur Major (T034) Graduate Certificate in Urban Management (Green Cities) (1898) Master of Architecture (Urban Transformation) (3761) Master of Planning (1712) Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage (1920) Master of Sustainable Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management (1936) Planning and Place Making, Major (0321) Sustainable Tourism Futures (Pathway to Master of Sustainable Tourism and Heritage), Minor (0307)