Academic Handbook Current Edition DESN 1007 Graphic Branding and Identity Credit Points 20 Legacy Code 102264 Coordinator Alison Barnes Opens in new window Description This subject enables students to further develop their understanding and application of the design process within the field  of graphic branding and identity design. Students will interrogate the fundamental principles of branding and explore diverse and creative approaches to branding and visual identity design from concept to outcome. Students' understanding of a design brief, client, competitors and audience will deepen and they will be introduced to some design specific research skills, such as mood board and persona development, which will help them begin to build a toolkit of methods to use throughout their degree. Students will explore the power of storytelling in the creation of compelling brand narratives and explore ways a brand can communicate with an intended audience. Key software will be introduced and supported by online resources, and students will continue to develop their visual design and communication skills in the fundamental areas of typography, image-making and composition. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Graphic Design Studies Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 20cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) DESN 1009 Equivalent Subjects DESN 1008 - Graphic Design Process and Practice (WSTC) Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply the fundamental principles of branding in the creation of visual solutions to an assessment brief.


Develop design ideas in response to a branding and identity design brief that are based on research and analysis, using a sketchbook to record this process.


Apply an iterative design process underpinned by experimentation to the development of a brand story and visual identity.


Produce design solutions appropriate to the brief, client and audience and support the development of these through a process of reflection, peer evaluation and critique.

Communicate clearly through the presentation of design ideas and outcomes.

Design professional standard outcomes using relevant media (including the major features of Adobe CC). Apply the fundamental principles of branding in the creation of visual solutions to an assessment brief. Develop design ideas in response to a branding and identity design brief that are based on research and analysis, using a sketchbook to record this process. Apply an iterative design process underpinned by experimentation to the development of a brand story and visual identity. Produce design solutions appropriate to the brief, client and audience and support the development of these through a process of reflection, peer evaluation and critique. Design professional standard outcomes using relevant media (including the major features of Adobe CC). Subject Content Special Requirements Essential equipment Students are expected to have: Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Applied Project Design practice, therefore no length/duration applicable 10 N Individual N  Applied Project Design practice, therefore no length/duration applicable 30 N Individual N  Portfolio Design practice, therefore no length/duration applicable 20 N Individual N  Portfolio Design practice, therefore no length/duration applicable 40 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Alison Barnes Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Design (Visual Communication) (1571) Bachelor of Design - Visual Communication (Dean's Scholars) (1737) Bachelor of Graphic Design (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (1843) Graphic and Design (DESN) Sales and Marketing (MKTG)