Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 2007 Arabic 203 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102021 Coordinator Sawsan Amara Opens in new window Description This is one of the components of the Arabic major and minor. It assumes an intermediate level of competence in the language. It aims to extend (intermediate) learners' skills with a particular focus on listening, speaking and oral interaction in Arabic, in a range of situations, by exposing students to realistic interactions, including the Arabic-Australian community. The subject also aims to extend the learners' lexicon and structures, particularly those used in talking about current personal experiences as well as events, and popular Arab personalities. NOTE: Students enrolling in this subject as part of a major or minor in Arabic must enrol in Arabic 204 at the same time. Students with a background of study in the language may need to take higher level subjects. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Program Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their appropriate level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Southwest Asian and North African Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 2053 - Language and Communication Skills 2B Arabic Assumed Knowledge Arabic 102 or equivalent knowledge. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: demonstrate comprehension of different forms of oral Arabic, formal and informal, including oral stories, events, news, description of personal experiences, radio and television broadcasts;
interact in a range of formal and informal situations (e.g. speaking to friends, at formal business, education and tourism settings) and deliver short talks and speeches;
identify the different varieties of spoken Arabic. Subject Content A wide range of aural/oral text in different situations
Introductions and personal histories
Description of an event or festival
Interactive situations including transactions, interviewing and personal interactions
Describing personalities, travels, situations and events relevant to Arabic speakers in Australia. Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio Equivalent to 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Report Equivalent to 1,000 words 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 2 hours maximum 40 N Individual N Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Sawsan Amara Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Arabic, Major (0003) Arabic, Minor (0003) Language and Literature (LANG)