Academic Handbook Current Edition LAWS 1002 Enterprise Law (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700254 Coordinator Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window Description This is an introductory law subject designed to introduce the fundamentals of law in a commercial context. The subject introduces students to the basic principles of law and the legal system as well as examining some of the major areas of law that impact on commercial dealings. This subject examines the structure of the legal system, the way law is made, and the main areas of law relevant to starting and running a business including contracts, torts and consumer protection. School Law Discipline Business and Commercial Law Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) JUST 0003 Equivalent Subjects LAWS 1004 - Introduction to Business Law LAWS 1001 - Enterprise Law LAWS 1005 - Introduction to Business Law (UWSC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of the features of the Australian legal system including the impact of this system upon Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
Demonstrate an understanding of legal concepts in business.
Apply understanding of legal concepts to analysing and solving practical problems.
Demonstrate effective and appropriate written communication skills. Subject Content 1. The Legal System
2. Contracts - with emphasis on employment contracts, leases etc
3. Negligence and negligent misstatement, Occupational Health and Safety
4. Australian Consumer Law
5. Business structures - partnerships, sole traders, trusts and companies Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Quiz 30 minutes 10 N Individual N  Case Study 500 words 15 N Individual N  Case Study 1100 words 35 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 40 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Bader Unnisa Mehdi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Diploma in Business (7177) Diploma in Business Extended (7102) Diploma in Business Fast Track (7100) Diploma in Business/Bachelor of Business (6037) Law (LAWS)