Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 3002 Child and Adolescent Occupations Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 400162 Coordinator Caroline Mills Opens in new window Description Students learn about occupational therapy practice with children and youth in different practice settings. This subject examines child development and explores the occupations of children and youth. The impact of family, social, cultural and political contexts on this period of life is analysed. Occupational therapy models, frames of reference, assessments and interventions are applied to practice scenarios. Family-centred practice is a key focus of this subject. School Health Sciences Discipline Occupational Therapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 2006 AND
REHA 2004 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in program 4663 Bachelor of Health Science/Master of Occupational Therapy or 4711 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy or 4712 Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Analyse important occupations in childhood and adolescence which are of concern in occupational therapy practice
Analyse typical and atypical child and adolescent development
Apply family centred practice principles used by occupational therapists to practice scenarios
Evaluate assessments and their application to occupational therapy practice with children and youth
Examine a range of occupational therapy interventions for children and youth
Critique and apply evidence to practice for children and youth with a variety of occupational needs
Critically analyse the impact of family, social, cultural and political contexts on the lives of children and youth Subject Content 1. Family-centred practice in occupational therapy
2. Child and adolescent development
3. Occupations of childhood and adolescence, e.g. play, self care, school, leisure
4. Environmental contexts (e.g. relevant policies, family and cultural contexts, school, childcare, transitional environments)
5. Common diagnoses and developmental issues in childhood and adolescence (e.g. learning and intellectual disability, developmental delay, neurological (cerebral palsy & brain injury), physical (Duchene Muscular dystrophy, developmental coordination disorder), psychological and social (ADHD, Autism)
6. Paediatric occupational therapy assessments and outcome measures
7. Paediatric occupational therapy interventions (e.g. play interventions, seating and positioning, assistive technology, handwriting) Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and undertake to apply for a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement, a Working with Children Check Student Declaration and First Aid Certificate.  Use the link to the Special Requirements webpage below for more information. Special Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,200 words 40 N Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Caroline Mills Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (4711) Bachelor of Occupational Therapy (Honours) (4712) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)