Academic Handbook Current Edition MEDI 7043 Diabetes in Paediatrics, Transition  and Pregnancy Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401290 Coordinator Cathy Wilson Opens in new window Description The physical and psychosocial developmental stage and age of the person with diabetes directly impacts on diabetes self-management, diabetes care and quality of life. This specialised subject will explore diabetes in the context of physical, psychological and social development with a focus on children, young adults and pregnant women. Ongoing family, therapeutic and social relationships are central to optimising diabetes management. Family, friends, peers, healthcare providers/organisations role will be examined in the ongoing holistic care and self-management of diabetes and prevention of diabetes complications. Students will evaluate the physiological impact of diabetes, treatment and emerging technology in the management of diabetes such as insulin pump therapy and continuous blood glucose monitoring systems. Accessing and interpreting data for the overall management of diabetes will be undertaken in this subject. School Medicine Discipline General Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 3 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) MEDI 7039 AND
MEDI 7041 AND
MEDI 7040 AND
MEDI 7042 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in the a postgraduate program with evidence of 12 month clinically relevant practice or substantial experience in working with people with diabetes. Assumed Knowledge Advanced knowledge in diabetes care and skills, Graduate Certificate in Diabetes. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Examine the aetiology, pathophysiology and clinical management of Diabetes in children, young adults and pregnant women.
Utilise current guidelines in balancing nutritional, physical activity and medication requirements for children, young adults and pregnant women with different types of diabetes in optimising their health status and support diabetes self-management.
Assess the impact on diabetes management in relation to the physiological, psychological and social/cultural developmental stages across the life span.
Formulate a person-centred approach in planning care taking into account the developmental and life stages of individuals and families.
Consider the implication of using emerging technology and devices for children in the management of diabetes. Subject Content - Diabetes in children and young adults
- Diabetes in pregnancy
- Psychological and social/cultural impact of diabetes on children, young adults and pregnant women
- Emerging technology in the management of diabetes Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Online  quiz x3 20 mins x3 30 N Individual N  Presentation 
peaditrics 20 minutes 25 N Individual N  Case Study Tranistion 2,500 words 45 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Cathy Wilson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Cathy Wilson Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Diploma in Person-centred Diabetes Care and Education (4762) Medical Studies (MEDI)