Academic Handbook Current Edition COMP 7013 Network Technologies Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300695 Coordinator Ante Prodan Opens in new window Description Computer networking is one of the fastest growing technologies of our time. The Internet interconnects billions of computers providing many new exciting opportunities and challenges. The Internet and the World Wide Web have provided the communication and infrastructure needed for global collaboration and information exchange. As a result of the rapid growth of networked systems and the diverse applications that run on them, success in many professions depends on a sound understanding of the technologies underlying these systems and applications. This subject explores these issues and provides the students with such an understanding. It covers the principles and current practices pertinent to computer networking and communications. It describes some of the important technologies and devices used in modern networks for information distribution and data sharing. The subject helps the students to understand important models, protocols and standards in networking and internetworking. School Computer, Data & Math Sciences Discipline Networks and Communications Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Equivalent Subjects LGYA 5883 - Network Technology and Data Communications Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a Postgraduate program. Assumed Knowledge The students should be familiar with the fundamentals of computer architecture and programming principles. They should also have a working knowledge of the World Wide Web. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate and analyse the primary concepts of networking and internetworking.
Evaluate the significance of the OSI and TCP/IP models and analyse the operation of their relevant protocol stacks for communications and networking.
Evaluate the functions of important communication devices such as, repeaters, bridges, routers, switches and gateways, create various types of network configurations and analyse their performance.
Analyse the operation of the major protocols used in local area and wide area networks including network security associated algorithms, applications and devices.
Analyse the Internet architecture and internetworking technologies, and create research reports on data communications, computer networking and internetworking technologies. Subject Content Overview of Networking Technologies
The Internet and TCP/IP Protocol Suite
Network Applications and Application Level Protocols
Local Area Networks
Internetworking and Routing Protocols
Fundamentals of Network Management
Fundamentals of Network Security
Emerging Network Technologies
Fundamentals of Wireless Networking and Mobile Computing
Fundamentals of Multimedia Networking
Practical aspects of basic LAN and WAN devices Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Practical 15 minutes per practical 20 N Individual N  Professional Task 60 minutes 30 N Group/Individual N  Case Study Approximately 3,000 words for two students 25 N Group N  Intra-session Exam 60 minutes 25 N Individual N Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Ante Prodan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ante Prodan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 1 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Spring (2024) Melbourne On-site Subject Contact Ante Prodan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ante Prodan Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Sydney City Campus - Term 3 (2024) Sydney City On-site Subject Contact Mahsa Razavi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Computer Science (COMP) Cybersecurity, Testamur Major (T003) Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3767) Graduate Certificate in Information and Communications Technology (3701) Graduate Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (exit only) (3766) Graduate Diploma in Information and Communications Technology (3700) Information and Communications Technology, Major (0232) Master of Artificial Intelligence (3765) Master of Information Governance (3779) Master of Information and Communications Technology (3699) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Advanced) (3698) Master of Information and Communications Technology (Research) (8112) Master of Information and Communications Technology/Master of Data Science (3780) Other information Technology (INFO)