Academic Handbook Current Edition REHA 2003 Musculoskeletal Disorders and Imaging Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401180 Coordinator Kym Hennessy Opens in new window Description This subject will introduce students to clinical and theoretical foundations of musculoskeletal disorders that can impact on the function of the lower extremity and reduce patient quality of life. Musculoskeletal disorders including rheumatic diseases, inflammatory arthropathies, connective tissue disorders, bone disease and tumours will be covered.  Advanced assessment evaluation will be taught with a focus on diagnostic imaging techniques including ultrasound, X-rays, magnetic resonance imaging, computer tomography and bone scans. This will assist in the clinical diagnosis of disease processes that present in podiatric settings School Health Sciences Discipline Podiatry Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) REHA 1003 AND
REHA 2005 AND
NATS 1022 Co-requisite(s) REHA 2007 Equivalent Subjects REHA 3032 - Podiatric Techniques 1B Restrictions The subject is Podiatry specific and restricted only to students enrolled in programs 4708 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine and 4709 Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours). The subject will be building on previous clinical skills. It is essential that students have been able to demonstrate baseline competencies in theoretical content, patient management, infection control and safe work practices (i.e completed the preceding prerequisite subjects). Students must meet all inherent requirements for the podiatry program. Assumed Knowledge Completion of all core subjects to this semester/year of study. Learning Outcomes Analyse and interpret the aetiology, pathophysiology and clinical manifestations of rheumatic diseases, bone disease, and neoplasms of the foot, ankle and lower extremity.
Identify and demonstrate and examination techniques (history taking, clinical examination and further investigations) needed to construct a differential diagnoses, obtain appropriate diagnostic criteria and implement a treatment program for a range of musculoskeletal disorders affecting the foot, ankle and lower extremity.
Distinguish and compare between the diverse range of treatment strategies (pharmacological, physical, mechanical, surgical, alternative etc.) available to treat rheumatic diseases and other musculoskeletal disorders of the foot, ankle and lower extremity.
Differentiate and describe the history, development and functionality of current diagnostic imaging modalities, including radiography, ultrasound, MRI, CT or bone scans, available to interpret different musculoskeletal tissue densities and anatomical structures of the foot, ankle and lower extremity.
Distinguish and demonstrate between the most appropriate imaging modalities and views needed for the visualisation of particular foot, ankle and lower extremity anatomical structures and common musculoskeletal disorders and develop referral skills for each of these modalities
Integrate diagnostic imaging test results with clinical examinations.
Identify and appraise the indications and contraindications of a range of diagnostic modalities used in the foot, ankle and lower extremity including radiography, ultrasound, MRI, CT and bone scans.
Analyse and compare the legal, ethical and medical ramifications of utilising different diagnostic imaging modalities to investigate common musculoskeletal disorders of the lower extremity. Subject Content Special Requirements Legislative pre-requisites Note: Due to Covid Restrictions, the First Aid Requirement is currently not needed.
Prior to enrolling in this subject, students must have submitted a Student Undertaking Form and have a National Police Check, which is required to be submitted before placement.  Students must also have submitted a Working with Children Check Student Declaration. Students must hold a valid and current First Aid Certificate from a Registered Training Organisation.
Refer to the Special Requirements website for more information.
Special requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Case Study Approximately 1,500 words
 25 N Individual N  Practical Exam 1 hour
 25 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours
 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Kym Hennessy Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Clinical Sciences) (exit only) (4789) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (4708) Bachelor of Podiatric Medicine (Honours) (4709) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA)