Academic Handbook Current Edition HLTH 2005 Exercise Prescription I Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 401143 Coordinator Bobby Cheema Opens in new window Description This subject is designed to give students an understanding of and experience in exercise prescription and fitness program construction for the general population (apparently healthy) across all ages and genders. It will focus on the development of general health-related exercise programs, which improve aerobic and anaerobic fitness, muscular strength and endurance, flexibility and body composition. Students will design, implement, supervise and evaluate a self-prescribed exercise program, and instruct training sessions for fellow students. School Health Sciences Discipline Physiotherapy Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) HLTH 2003 AND
SPRT 2002 Equivalent Subjects HLTH 2006 - Exercise Prescription for General Populations Restrictions Students must be enrolled in 4658 - Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science). Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Articulate the principles of exercise prescription with particular emphasis on aerobic training, resistance training, and flexibility training methods
Describe how ageing and physical inactivity impact upon health-related physical fitness and how exercise can be used to mitigate these effects
Describe the absolute and relative contraindications to exercise participation and criteria to terminate fitness tests of all types
Administer and interpret a range of pre-exercise health screening tools to determine the risk for an individual and appropriate action
Select, implement, interpret, and modify standard health-related physical fitness tests for low risk individuals
Design, implement, supervise, and evaluate training programs in the primary areas of exercise prescription for low risk clients using in-person and telepractice service delivery methods Subject Content 1. The health benefits and risks of exercise
2. Pre-exercise screening, testing and interpretation
3.. General principles of exercise prescription and exercise program development
a. aerobic training
b. flexibility training
c. high-intensity interval training
d. resistance training
e. circuit training and group-based exercise programming
4. Fundamentals of periodization
5. Exercise prescription across the lifespan
6. Exercise prescription for weight management
7. Resistance training prescription for children and adolescents
8. Exercise prescription during pregnancy
9. Alternative training methods, yoga
10. Design, implement, supervise and evaluate effective exercise prescriptions using in-person and telepractice service delivery methods Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y  Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Group Y  Simulation Weekly 20 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Bobby Cheema Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Health Science (Sport and Exercise Science) (4658) Exercise Science, Minor (0279) Other Health (HLTH) Other Natural and Physical Sci (NATS) Rehabilitation Therapies (REHA) Sport and Recreation (SPRT)