Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 3008 English Language Linguistics Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102476 Coordinator David McInnes Opens in new window Description In 2021, this subject replaced by 102813 - English Talk. This subject offers students a formal study of the workings of the English language as it is used around the world. Using real-world examples, this subject builds on the content and skills which students have developed in the unit: English as an International Language.  It prepares students with a thorough knowledge of variations in English across the globe, introducing them to the ways in which English varies at phonological, grammatical and register levels across contexts. This subject is essential for a student's development of more formal skills in the English language, developing their English knowledge and skill into a professional and personal asset. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline English as a Second Language Teaching Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Equivalent Subjects LANG 3099 - English Talk Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a foundational knowledge of working grammar and linguistic concepts
Apply theoretical ideas to real-world practice of variant Englishes
Analyse power structures by contrasting theory and actual practices of language
Demonstrate applications of grammaticality to an analysis of textual examples of World Englishes.
Reflect on and explain miscommunication between Englishes, by proposing solutions at the grammatical and sociolinguistic levels.
Demonstrate knowledge of English grammar and linguistic concepts
Demonstrate applications of grammatical analysis to textual examples of World Englishes.
Reflect on and explain miscommunication between Englishes. Subject Content The essentials of the English language: grammar, punctuation, prosody, morphology, non-verbals, phonology, paralinguistics.
The concept of World Englishes and real differences in meaning and practice.
Communication styles: idiolects, familiolects, sociolects, language varieties and dialects.
Languages in contact and pidginisation.
The global context: lingua franca, language death and imperialism.
Sociolinguistics and power structures
Standardisation and non-standards: prescriptivism and descriptivism
Variation in the English language: grammar, punctuation, prosody, morphology, non-verbals, phonology, paralinguistics.
The details of World Englishes and real-world differences in meaning and practice.
Sociolinguistics and power structures.
Standardisation and non-standards. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Discourse analysis x 2 40 mins each 40 N Individual   Short answer x 4  300 words each 60 N Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Language and Literature (LANG) Teacher Education (TEAC)