Academic Handbook Current Edition TEAC 5006 English Curriculum 2 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 102864 Coordinator Jennifer Dove Opens in new window Description This subject extends pedagogical content knowledge about the teaching of English provided in English Curriculum 1. Responses to texts and composing meaning for communication, knowledge, enjoyment and agency for senior students is presented in this subject. Opportunities for quality literature of past and contemporary societies and engage with the literature and literary heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples is provided. The design, selection and application of pedagogical choices for senior students in lesson sequences, text selections, subject planning and assessment is the focus of the subject. Professional learning and the critical discussion of educational research in teaching English is explored. This subject is included in the Development Phase of the Master of Teaching program. School Education Discipline Teacher Education: Secondary Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Pre-requisite(s) TEAC 7004 OR TEAC 7161 AND
TEAC 7032 AND
TEAC 7027 OR TEAC 7160 Restrictions Students in program 1714  or 1914must have the English Curriculum Area applied to their student record before they can enrol in this subject. Students can view their Curriculum Areas on DegreeWorks in MySR. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of NSW English curriculum in Stage 6.
Apply socio-cultural perspectives and pedagogical theories and approaches used in the English curriculum area for senior students.
Present well-constructed, innovative and coherent student-centred lessons that extend students’ literacy (including key metalanguage) and numeracy, enhance thinking and ICT skills and which take into account the full range of students’ abilities and school-based and system data.
Critically engage with texts that include widely acknowledged quality literature of past and contemporary societies and engage with the literature and literary heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Prepare a suitable range of senior assessment instruments that use valid, reliable and consistent judgements of student learning.
Design relevant, innovative and authentic teaching programs that apply a critically reflective approach to teaching English in stage 6 and include opportunities to develop students’ reading, listening, speaking, viewing and writing skills. 
Use a variety of teaching and learning strategies and resources, including ICT and a range of texts in teaching senior lessons and programs.
Reflect on of the secondary teacher’s role and engage in professional learning, curriculum construction and research discussions. Subject Content What is the nature of the English in the senior years of secondary education? How is the English linked to what is taught in the junior and middle years of secondary education?
How are current educational policies and priorities addressed with particular reference to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander education, literacy and numeracy and ICT, in the teaching of the subject?
In what ways do active and engaging, student-centred teaching practices characterise the subject? Why is an understanding of socio-cultural and pedagogical theories and approaches important to quality teaching in the subject?
How are lessons planned, units written and learning scoped and sequenced in the senior English?
Why is it necessary to continue to differentiate teaching in the subject in the senior years of secondary education? How do teachers go about differentiation?
How may the incorporation of visionary and innovative uses of ICT, critical and creative thinking and problem solving support the achievement of quality learning outcomes in the senior English courses?
How can assessment of learning, assessment for learning and assessment as learning be reconciled in teaching the subject?
What records do teachers keep? How are those records used in reporting student performance at the HSC and for the awarding the Record of Student Achievement (ROSA)?
In what ways has educational research contributed to the teaching and student learning of the English?
What options are open to pre-service teachers to continue to learn about the English? Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual Y  Portfolio 2000 words 50 N Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Jennifer Dove Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Graduate Certificate in Secondary Teaching (1914) Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies (Secondary) (exit only) (1715) Master of Educational Studies (exit only) (1859) Master of Teaching (Secondary) (1714) Teacher Education (TEAC)