Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 3083 Specialised Translation (UG) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100198 Coordinator Kenny Wang Opens in new window Description This subject explores the functional, discursive, rhetorical, syntactic, semantic and lexical features of texts in the following specialised fields: tourism, news media, legal texts, technical & scientific materials. Knowledge of the functions and textual features of specialised texts will provide a basis for translating these specialised texts from and into English. Students will analyse the texts in both languages, and discuss ways in which the texts are to be translated. The subject will be available, depending on sufficient demand, for Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin and Spanish. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Translating and Interpreting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Students must be bilingual in the language combinations offered by the School Assumed Knowledge Proficiency in English and one other language (LOTE) at native or near-native level. Learning Outcomes identify and analyse the functional, discursive, rhetorical, syntactic, semantic and lexical features of English texts in the specialised fields of tourism, law, journalism and science and technology;
identify and analyse the functional, discursive, rhetorical, syntactic, semantic and lexical features of LOTE texts in the specialised fields of tourism, law, journalism and science and technology; and
deploy translation strategies appropriate to the specific text types. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 30 N Individual N  Quiz 2 x 30 minutes 20 N Individual N  Essay 1200 words 50 N Individual N Teaching Periods Spring (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Kenny Wang Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation Studies) (exit only) (1813) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (1519) Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) Dean's Scholars (1692) Diploma in Arts/Bachelor of Arts (Interpreting and Translation) (6041) Language and Literature (LANG)