Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 5001 Innovation Economy Credit Points 10 Coordinator Heath Spong Opens in new window Description Innovation is essential to unlocking new frontiers of growth, development, and quality of life. Successful innovation requires a synergy of creative entrepreneurship and strategic management. In this subject, students will develop the ability to recognize both opportunities and the limitations of cognitive biases when pursuing potential prospects. Cognitive and neuropsychological processes underpin incremental and radical innovations and distinctive personality traits may also be associated with successful entrepreneurship. Further, students will also explore self-management, interpersonal management, and leadership skills as essential to succeeding in the innovation economy. Successful innovation has the potential to unleash forces of creative destruction that requires to assess the resultant social and economic transformations. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 5 subject Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this Subject, students will be able to: Generate the organisational conditions in which innovation can emerge and succeed.
Critically analyse how innovation creates economic and social value in a business context.
Apply psychological processes of opportunity recognition
Identify distinctive psychological traits and mindsets of successful innovators
Evaluate and propose strategies to empower innovation in an organisational context Subject Content The innovation imperative Essential ingredients of creativity and innovation Creating economic and social value Creativity and innovation (cognitive and neuropsychological) Mindset of entrepreneurs Entrepreneurship in action: Application Special Requirements Essential equipment Computer and internet access Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Professional Task 1,000 words plus graphics 30 N Individual N  Presentation 3 minutes 30 N Individual N  Applied Project 1,500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Graduate Certificate in Human and Business Performance (1942)