Academic Handbook Current Edition LANG 1005 Chinese 101 Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 100056 Coordinator Ruying Qi Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to the (Mandarin) Chinese language as well as aspects of Chinese culture which are necessary for language competency, using Pinyin and simplified characters.  It is intended for students who are not from a Chinese-speaking background and who are at beginner level in all four skills -listening, speaking, reading and writing in Modern Standard Chinese. Components of this subject may be presented in English.  Students with a background of study in the language need to obtain advice on their appropriate level of language study. During the first two weeks of class, the lecturer will monitor the performance of students and advise students who need to transfer to a higher class. Students should consult the Languages Academic Course Advisor or Subject Coordinator if they are unsure of their entry level. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline Eastern Asian Languages Student Contribution Band HECS Band 1 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Learning Outcomes develop basic (Mandarin) Chinese language skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing;
gain knowledge of key elements of China, its culture, and the Chinese-speaking community in Australia;
gain knowledge of key characteristics of the Chinese language and its development;
acquire some understanding of the Chinese way of thinking. Subject Content Inherent Requirements There are inherent requirements for this subject that you must meet in order to successfully complete this subject. Make sure you read and understand the requirements for your subject online. Inherent Requirements Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 5-10 minutes 30 N Individual Y  Report 1,000 words 30 N Individual Y  Final Exam Maximum 2 hours 40 N Individual Y Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Penrith (Kingswood) On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta - Victoria Rd On-site Subject Contact Ruying Qi Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Chinese, Major (0004) Chinese, Minor (0004) Education Studies, Minor (0129) Language and Literature (LANG)