Academic Handbook Current Edition ECON 1014 Consumers, Firms and Markets Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 201099 Coordinator Edward Mariyani-Squire Opens in new window Description This subject is an introduction to microeconomics. It provides students with an understanding of basic concepts such as value, rational consumer behaviour, the behaviour of firms in various market structures, the efficiency and failings of markets, the distribution of wealth and income, and the role of government regulation and intervention. It illuminates these concepts by considering and debating their application to contemporary economic and social issues such as: the influence of marketing on consumer choices, the concentration of market power in Australian industries, rising income and wealth inequality, minimum wage laws, and governmental responses to environmental problems and climate change. School Business Discipline Economics Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Equivalent Subjects ECON 1002 - Consumers Firms and Markets (WSTC) MKTG 1005 - Consumers Firms and Markets Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Apply microeconomic concepts to contemporary economic settings.
Apply geometric and mathematical concepts and techniques of analysis.
Interpret basic theoretical models of market structures.
Explain how microeconomic concepts have informed public policy debate on a variety of contemporary politico-economic issues.
Analyse critically with respect to theory and policy. Subject Content 1. Core microeconomic concepts
2. Demand and supply
3. Elasticities of demand and supply
4. Market equilibrium
5. Market welfare: efficiency and government intervention
6. Externalities and public goods: efficiency and government intervention
7. Market structures and firms: short run outcomes
8. Market structures and firms: long run outcomes
9. Strategic choices: game theory
10. Labour markets: demand and supply
11. Labour markets: power, institutions, discrimination
12. Inequality, poverty, fairness and justice Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Presentation 15 minutes 10 N Group N  Short Answer 5 - 10 minutes 10 N Individual N  Multiple Choice 6 quizzes, 60 minutes each 30 N Individual N  Final Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Autumn (2024) Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Edward Mariyani-Squire Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Bachelor of Business (Pathway to Teaching Secondary) (2804) Business Studies, Major (0127) Business, Minor (0299) Economics and Econometrics (ECON) Economics for Secondary Teaching, Minor (0141) Economics, Minor (0300) Economics, Testamur Major (T039) Economy and Markets, Major (0008)