Academic Handbook Current Edition HUMN 2021 Doing Business in China Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 101857 Coordinator Niv Horesh Opens in new window Description This subject is primarily aimed at acquainting undergraduate students with the academic theory and debates surrounding China's business etiquette and its globalizing economy.  Drawing on a wide range of English-language studies, subject lectures will cover in broad strokes the historic background of the economic reforms carried out in China over the last three decades, as well as their societal implications. They will discuss, for example, the evolution of corporate law and property rights in the PRC since 1949, and the underlying differences and interdependence between the Chinese and Australian economies. School Humanities & Comm Arts Discipline History Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 40 credit points. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Students will be able to
Explain the historic background and ongoing controversies surrounding China's economic-reform thrust over the last three decades.
Carry out effective team or group-based work.
Proficiently argue their standpoint, both orally and in writing, in relation to China's development trajectory and the future of Sino-Australian trade.
Independently find important sources of data and information that might later help them further develop their knowledge of the Chinese and Australian economies, as well as the process of economic globalization as a whole.
Demonstrate team-work allocation capacity, as well as group research and presentation skills. Subject Content What have been the most successful/unsuccessful aspects of China's economic reforms?
A Unique Business Etiquette?
Inter-Provincial Competition.
Foreign Investment in China.
Impersonal vs. Personal Trust.
Legal Reform.
The Wenzhou vs.Shanghai Models of Economic Development.
China's Financial and Banking System.
State Owned Enterprises vs. Private Sector.
The Spectre of Corruption/Guanxi.
The Deadweight of Pollution.
The Global Financial Crisis and the End of "Chimerica".
The Future of Sino-Australian Trade and Investment. Structures that include subject Studies in Human Society (HUMN)