Academic Handbook Current Edition ACCT 1006 Accounting in Context (WSTC) Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 700274 Coordinator Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window Description Accounting in Context is the first core subject required in the accredited accounting program, but can be included as an elective in other courses. It is designed to provide an overarching context about the purpose and usefulness of accounting information and explain a range of definitions and terms used in accounting and business. Accounting in Context will introduce accounting reports and their interpretation, and explore the impact of policy and measurement methods on accounting information and business decisions. Successful completion of the subject will equip participants with an understanding of the importance of accounting to society and allow them to engage with the next core accounting subject; Financial Accounting Applications. School Business Discipline Accounting Student Contribution Band HECS Band 4 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 1 subject Pre-requisite(s) Students in programs 7102 or 7177 must have successfully completed BUSM 0029 Decision Making for Business (WSTC Prep) before enrolling in this subject Equivalent Subjects ACCT 1005 - Accounting in Context ACCT 1002 - Accounting Information for Managers (Creative Industries) Incompatible Subjects ACCT 1001 - Accounting Information for Managers ACCT 1003 - Accounting Information for Managers (WSTC) Restrictions Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Evaluate the usefulness of accounting for decision making.
Analyse the ethical, regulatory and sustainability dimensions of accounting.
Demonstrate through real-world examples how accounting concepts apply to businesses in the 21st century.
Analyse how different accounting techniques impact on accounting information.
Demonstrate skills in research and communication. Subject Content 1. What is accounting and its purpose?
2. Who uses accounting information and how is it used for decision making?
3. What does accounting information look like for different business structures?
4. The regulatory, ethical and sustainability dimensions of accounting.
5. Accounting terms, principles and concepts.
6. Applying the definition and recognition of balance sheet items (assets, liabilities and equity) to a business case study.
7. Applying the definition and recognition of income statement items (income and expenses) to a business case study.
8. Business transactions ? recognising, classifying and recording.
9. Exploring the accounting equation.
10. Accounting Techniques: the impact of policies and measurement methods on accounting information and business decisions.
11. Interpreting financial statements. Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Portfolio 2,500 words 30 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour  10 N Individual N  Intra-session Exam 1 hour  10 N Individual N  End-of-session Exam 2 hours 50 Y Individual Y Prescribed Texts Teaching Periods Term 1 (2024) Bankstown City On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Online Online Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 2 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Term 3 (2024) Online Online Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Olympic Park On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Parramatta City - Macquarie St On-site Subject Contact Abdullah Al Aabed Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Accounting (ACCT) Diploma in Business (7177) Diploma in Business Extended (7102) Diploma in Business Fast Track (7100) Diploma in Business/Bachelor of Business (6037)