Academic Handbook Current Edition BIOS 2016 General Microbiology Credit Points 10 Legacy Code 300844 Coordinator Michael Phillips Opens in new window Description Microorganisms play a crucial role in soil and water ecosystems, in health and disease of plants and animals, including humans, as well as in industries such as the food and brewing industries. The subject builds on students existing knowledge of cell biology and biodiversity, and explores the characteristics of micro-organisms, the conditions required for their growth and survival, methods of control and their significance in the environment, health and industry. The theory and practice of microbiology are integrated in the laboratory component in which students learn techniques of handling, observing, growing and counting microorganisms. School Science Discipline Microbiology Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 10cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 2 subject Pre-requisite(s) BIOS 1012 OR
BIOS 1001 Equivalent Subjects BIOS 2015 - General Microbiology Incompatible Subjects LGYC 0093 - Microbiology 11 BIOS 2023 - Microbiology 1 BIOS 2022 - Microbiology 1 Assumed Knowledge Knowledge of introductory biology, especially an understanding of the diversity of living organisms and basic concepts of cell structure and function is essential for students undertaking this subject. Learning Outcomes Compare the characteristics and habitats of the major groups of microorganisms.
Describe and discuss the factors that favour growth and survival of microorganisms and apply this knowledge to cultivation, control and elimination of microorganisms.
Explain the beneficial and detrimental roles of microorganisms in soil and aquatic environments, in human health and the food industry.
Discuss epidemiology and control of selected diseases in the Australian context.
Access and interpret relevant research literature and communicate microbiological concepts in written form.
Work within Workplace Health and Safety guidelines in a group to perform basic microbiological techniques to characterise and enumerate microorganisms.
Analyse and report microbiological data and interpret it in the context of Australian standards/guidelines. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Laboratory Record and Report Booklet N/A 20 N Individual   On-line quizzes 3 x 1 hour 10 N Individual   Written assignment 1,500 words 20 N Individual   Final examination 2 hours closed book exam 50 Y Individual Prescribed Texts Structures that include subject Biological Sciences (BIOS)