Academic Handbook Current Edition POLI 3016 International Relations Project Credit Points 10 Description This is a capstone subject in the Bachelor of International Studies and forms one of the core subjects. The aim of the subject is for students to apply the skills and knowledge developed during the Bachelor of International Studies and relate this to a range of real-world issues of a global nature. Students will develop an individual project based around an actual scenario in International Studies. It may be a project based on an authentic real-world issue for an industry partner; a project designed to address an issue which the student has identified; or a research proposal for future postgraduate study. Industry partners include companies, government departments, IGOs, NGOs and other organisations that have some international focus. School Humanities & Comm Arts Student Contribution Band Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Undergraduate Level 3 subject Restrictions Successful completion of 160 credit points of study in currently enrolled program. Assumed Knowledge This is a capstone International Relations subject. It is assumed that students have developed sufficient international relations knowledge and research skills to undertake this subject. Learning Outcomes After successful completion of this subject, students will be able to: Analyse a specific global issue or problem from a multidisciplinary perspective.
Critically analyse the contributing effects of cultural diversity on the global issue. 
Research and critically evaluate systemic causes and potential consequences of a global issue. 
Based on research evidence and the perspectives of key interested parties; for example, academics, industry, governments, IGOs and NGOs, propose a set of recommendations for resolving a global issue. 
Communicate, both orally and in writing, on the findings of the project with consideration given to the perspectives of key interested parties.
Reflect on learnings from the development of the project and sources of feedback provided. Subject Content Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Reflection 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Proposal 1000 words 20 N Individual N  Presentation 10 minutess 20 N Individual N  Report 2500 words 40 N Individual N Structures that include subject Bachelor of Communication / Bachelor of International Studies (1932) Bachelor of International Studies (1658) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Business (1820) Bachelor of International Studies/Bachelor of Social Science (1807) Political Science and Policy (POLI)