Academic Handbook Current Edition CMPL 7020 Research Project and Thesis Credit Points 60 Legacy Code 401138 Coordinator Sean Walsh Opens in new window Description This is a 60 credit point year-long subject taken over two terms (30 credit points in each term). This subject requires students to complete a substantial piece of independent research in Chinese Medicine including research planning, study design, data collection, analysis and interpretation. Dissertation projects are developed in consultation with staff who possess similar research interests and relevant research experience. Students may wish to submit their work for examination in a form suitable for publication in the peer-reviewed literature (with supplementary material as appropriate). School Health Sciences Discipline Traditional Chinese Medicine Student Contribution Band HECS Band 2 30cp Check your fees via the Fees page. Level Postgraduate Coursework Level 7 subject Pre-requisite(s) CMPL 7012 AND
PUBH 7016 OR
HLTH 7008 Co-requisite(s) AGEN 7005 Restrictions Students must be enrolled in a postgraduate program and have a GPA of 5.0 or greater. Students transferring from the current teaching-out program 4675 Master of Health Science (Traditional Chinese Medicine) and 4678 Master of Health Science (Acupuncture) may be eligible to entry into the subject with 401080 Research Protocol Design and Practice as corequisite subject to individual assessments. Assumed Knowledge It is assumed that the student would have completed core (or foundational) subjects associated with their Masters program, ideally in relevant research design and practice related disciplines. Learning Outcomes On successful completion of this subject, students should be able to: Develop a research proposal in consultation with SSH supervisor(s)
Conduct research independently under the direction of SSH supervisor(s)
Complete research to an expected disciplinary standard
Develop skills in presenting scientific reports Subject Content Research proposal development related to Chinese Medicine in consultation with SSH supervisor(s)
Data collection, collation, and analysis
Interpretation and dissemination of research findings Assessment The following table summarises the standard assessment tasks for this subject. Please note this is a guide only. Assessment tasks are regularly updated, where there is a difference your Learning Guide takes precedence. Type Length Percent Threshold Individual/Group Task Mandatory    Thesis 15,000-20,000 words 85 Y Individual Y  Presentation 30 minutes class presentation 15 N Individual Y Teaching Periods 1st Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sean Walsh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window 2nd Half (2024) Campbelltown On-site Subject Contact Sean Walsh Opens in new window View timetable Opens in new window Structures that include subject Complementary Therapies (CMPL) Master of Chinese Medicine (4716) Master of Chinese Medicine (4795)