Title: Admissions Criteria - Western Sydney University International College
Description: No description found
Modified Time: 2024-07-09T12:15:53+00:00

Page Content:
Admissions Criteria Admissions Criteria
Western Sydney University International College (WSUIC) Admits International Students Only.
Applications with Higher Education Study
Applicants who have completed or partially completed (minimum 40CPs) higher education study in one of the Australian recognised Higher Education Institutes/ Universities might be eligible for admissions to WSUIC on the basis of those studies. Higher education might include but not limited to Undergraduate or Postgraduate, Diploma achieved in one of the Australian recognised Higher Education Institutes/ Universities.
Applicant with higher education study may be eligible to apply for Recognition of Prior Learnings (RPLs) with WSUIC (maximum RPLs applied, refer to The International College RPL policy for more information).
Applicant with complete or incomplete higher education might not meet English proficiency requirement for admissions to The International College course. Evidence of English proficiency or other course specific requisites might be required.
Applicants with Vocational Education and Training (VET) Study
Applicant who have completed any TAFE course/s or accredited AQF course/s from private colleges might be eligible for admissions to The International College course
OR
Applicant who partially completed TAFE course/s or accredited AQF course/s from private colleges in combination with completion of Australian Year 12 or equivalent might be eligible for admissions to Courses at WSUIC.
Applicant with vocational education and training (VET) study might be eligible to apply for Recognition of Prior Learnings (RPLs) with WSUIC (maximum RPLs applied, refer to WSUIC RPL policy for more information)
Applicants with Recent Secondary Education (Within the Past 2 Years)
ATARs are used for admission to WSUIC. Applicants must demonstrate successful completion of Australian Year 12 or its international equivalent. Assessment is based on a 50% average over all the units undertaken in Year 12. Students may wish to submit additional information (Statement of Purpose and/or resume with supporting evidence).
Admit on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor: Applicant who has completed Australian year 12 or equivalent with average of 50% or higher might be eligible for admissions to The International College course
Admit solely on the basis of ATAR: Applicant who completed NSW ATAR 50 or equivalent might be eligible for admission to WSUIC’s course. Year 12 applicants in ACT, SA, NT, TAS, VIC and WA with ATAR result from ACT BSSS, SATAC, TASC, VTAC and TISC respectively is equivalent to NSW ATAR.
Admit where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered: Student who completed HSC in NSW in combination of completion of Australian year 12 or equivalent might be eligible for admissions to The International College course.
Applicant with only recent secondary education will not be eligible for RPLs for courses at WSUIC.
Applicants with Work and Life Experience (Includes Those Who Left Secondary Education More Than 2 Years Ago)
Applicants who don’t meet the academic requirements may be admitted to Courses at WSUIC Program on the basis of demonstrable expertise and relevant work experience. WSUIC provides an opportunity for alternative entry for the mature students (who left secondary education more than 2 years ago) to participate in higher education. Applicants are required to provide Statement of service detailing the information of work experience (including details of employer, length of employment, term of employment (part time or full time), position held, and duties undertaken in the role). Applicants may also submit any academic studies that have partaken in since leaving school.
Academic Entry Requirement
English Entry Requirements https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/admissions/entry-requirements/ https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/admissions/entry-requirements/