Title: Arts - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Western Sydney University International College's Diploma in Arts helps international students enter into second year of numerous degrees at Western Sydney University
Modified Time: 2024-09-02T01:16:35+00:00

Page Content:
Course Overview
The Diploma in Arts provides a pathway into the Bachelor of Arts degree. A qualification in the Arts can cover a broad range of humanities subjects from writing and literature, to studies of other cultures, religions and languages. It can also enable you to access a pathway to Teaching with up to one-year equivalent advanced standing. Furthermore, this course offers a foundation unit in Academic English that provides an additional skills base for tertiary level study.
Delivery mode: This course is delivered face-to-face/ on campus. Potential Careers
As an Arts graduate, you can look forward to career opportunities in:

Teacher
Enterprise Leadership
Writing
Artistic Direction
Political Advisory
Digital Communications
Social Research and Policy

Additional Information
More information about the Diploma in Arts.
Click here to view the student guide for Diploma in Arts.
Diploma in Arts is delivered under Western Sydney University International College CRICOS Provider Code 108966D and is at AQF level 5 under the Australian Qualification Framework.
Intellectual Property for some courses including material may be owned by Western Sydney University and are used by Western Sydney University International College in accordance with Licence Agreement.
This course is accredited by the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA), and is authorised to be offered to international  students studying on an international student visa, under the Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS). Further information can be found at https://www.teqsa.gov.au/provider/western-sydney-university-international-college-pty-ltd https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/wp-content/uploads/Dip-Arts-2024.pdf https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/wp-content/uploads/Arts-Quick-Guide-for-Students-FINAL-V1.0.pdf https://www.teqsa.gov.au/provider/western-sydney-university-international-college-pty-ltd