Title: English Language Programs - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Western Sydney University International College offers English language programs to suit every level of competency
Modified Time: 2024-07-05T08:45:39+00:00

Page Content:
English Language Programs
The internationally-acclaimed programs are delivered by Western Sydney University The College. They are designed to suit every level of competency and give you every chance to succeed. Whether you want to improve your general communication skills, work in Australia or study at Western Sydney University, our teachers are dedicated to your achievement and will go above and beyond to ensure you reach your goals. Contact English Programs
Do you have questions about any of our English programs? Please call us on 1300 897 669 or visit our English programs page.
Programs Include:

IELTS Test
OET Test
Advanced Academic English Skills
PTE Test
English Enhancement Program
Study Tours
English For Academic Purposes
Bachelor of Nursing Direct Entry English Program
Advanced Academic English Skills
Master of Teaching Direct Entry English Program

Why study English at The College?
Learn at an internationally-acclaimed institution: With off-shore programs at partner universities in Vietnam and China, we pride ourselves on our international reputation and strive to uphold the level of quality and excellence our English Language Programs have grown to attain.
Pathways to Western Sydney University
Whether you’re hoping to enter Foundation Studies, a Diploma course or Undergraduate degree, our English Language Courses are designed to get you ready for success at an English-speaking university.
Ongoing Support
Our dedicated teachers follow your progress closely to ensure you get the most out of your College experience and achieve your academic goals. Whether you’re having trouble understanding what to do, keeping up with the workload or feeling a bit homesick, our bi-lingual staff are here to help.
Package Courses
English courses can be packaged with Foundation Studies and/or Diploma courses, as well as Western Sydney University degrees. With a package, you’ll only have to pay one international student processing fee, and you’ll only need one visa for your entire study experience.
Entrance Test
The College offers an English Language Entrance Test to assess whether you have the English language skills required for direct entry to The College, Western Sydney University International College or Western Sydney University.
Consistent Results and Accreditation
The College has built a national and international reputation for excellence on the results we deliver. We are a member of English Australia (EA) and University English Centres Australia (UECA) and all of our English Language Programs are accredited by TEQSA and quality endorsed by the National ELT Accreditation Scheme (NEAS) Limited Australia. The College is also certified by the Australian Government (CRICOS Provider Code 02851G), which means we are licensed to teach English to international students. http://www.westernsydney.edu.au/thecollege/english_programs