Title: How to Apply - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Find out how to apply to study at Western Sydney University International College
Modified Time: 2024-07-05T10:23:04+00:00

Page Content:
How to Apply
Applications can be made at any time. Please make sure to allow adequate time for the processing of your student visa. Under 18 Admission
If you are under the age of 18 when planning to study at Western Sydney University International College, you must provide additional documentation about your accommodation and welfare. For more information, please visit the Under 18 Students page on Western Sydney University website.
Under 18 Years Student Policy

Complete the application form online.
Attach certified copies of all academic qualifications including school reports, official examination certificates, and evidence of English competency (if required). Certified translations must accompany those which are not in English. Documents can be certified by any of the following:

Western Sydney University International College Admissions Officer
a contracted agent of Western Sydney University
Western Sydney University International College Student Services Officer
the Administration Office or official Records Department of the institution which originally issued the document/s
an Australian overseas diplomatic mission
a Bank Manager/Senior Police Officer (Australia only)
a Solicitor/Attorney/Notary Public
a Justice of the Peace


If not applying online, send your documents to Western Sydney University International College: mypathway@westernsydney.edu.au
Successful applicants will be sent a Letter of Offer. We aim to make offers typically within 48 hours if your supporting documents are complete, although there can be delays where credit/exemption is sought for previous study, if further checks are required, and during peak periods. It can take up to 10 days to process your application.


The certifying officer must print ‘this is a true copy of the original document sighted by me’. They should also record their name, contact address, telephone number, profession or occupation or organisation, date verified and then sign the document. The certifying officer should include the official stamp or seal of the certifier’s organisation on the copy, if the organisation has such a stamp. Warning: It is an offence to submit fraudulent documentation in support of an application. Where fraudulent documents are detected, the application will be rejected, any offer of enrolment will be withdrawn and any student already studying at Western Sydney University will have their enrolment cancelled. The matter may be reported to the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC), the police, and Australian Immigration. https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/admissions/apply/ mailto:mypathway@westernsydney.edu.au