Title: Living in Sydney - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Find out what it's like to live in Sydney, and learn more about Parramatta where the Western Sydney University International College is located
Modified Time: 2024-08-09T02:52:27+00:00

Page Content:
Living in Sydney
Sydney is one of the world’s truly great multicultural cities, with a population representing more than 180 different national backgrounds. Recently named as one of the world’s most popular cities for international students by QS Top Universities, Sydney is a great choice if you are looking to study in a vibrant, cultural, lively city. Sydney boasts world-class cultural and educational institutions, iconic structures such as the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge, and is the commercial heart of the nation. It offers citizens and visitors enchanting park lands and beaches, world-class shopping facilities and restaurants, and great late night bars and clubs.
Sport is a vital part of Sydney life and there are plenty of teams to support and a variety of sports to play. It is the oldest city in Australia and the number one destination for overseas tourists. The city is also flanked on three sides by large wilderness areas, including the World Heritage-listed Blue Mountains National Park. Living in Parramatta
Parramatta is Sydney’s second largest Central Business District and is only 30 minutes from Sydney’s Central railway station. Parramatta is a vibrant, multi-cultural district. It has already become an attractive location for global organisations, providing students like yourself with more internship and job opportunities.
Living in Greater Western Sydney
The Greater Western Sydney region is the home of Western Sydney University and Western Sydney University International College. It stretches from Parramatta, the geographical centre of Sydney, to the Blue Mountains on the western edge of the metropolitan Sydney area.
Greater Western Sydney is also a global centre for trade, innovation and learning with the third largest economy in Australia. Of the top 500 companies in Australia, 150 are based in the area, making it the ideal location for future leaders. Home to more than one in eleven Australians, Greater Western Sydney has the most diverse multicultural community in the world.
Parramatta Climate
Average temperatures in:

Summer (Dec – Feb) 17-29°C
Autumn (March – May) 12-23°C
Winter (June – August) 6-19°C
Spring (September – November) 11-23°C