Title: Payment Options - Western Sydney University International College
Description: There are a number of payment options for Western Sydney University International College tuition fees
Modified Time: 2024-07-05T09:02:17+00:00

Page Content:
Payment Options
Students have a number of options when it comes to paying your Western Sydney University International College tuition fees. Payment Options
Payment of the amount due should be made in Australian dollars. When making payment students need to include their student ID, as listed in the Letter of Offer. Depending on the method of payment additional banking charges may apply.
International payments with Flywire
If you are a future student, please refer to your Letter of Offer for payment information.
If you are a current/returning student, please make payments through your student portal.
Pay via our online payment portal 
Western Sydney University International College accepts various payment options through our official payment partner – Flywire.
Flywire became our payment partner in December 2023.  Invoices and Letters of Offer sent to you prior to this date may have included different payment information.  
This portal allows you to: 

Execute, track and confirm your payment online in a secure portal
Use familiar payment options from your home country, in 140+ currencies
Access a 24/7 multilingual customer support team for assistance
Save on bank fees and ensure the best exchange rates with Flywire’s best price guarantee.

How to make a payment to Western Sydney University International College 

Visit your Western Sydney University International College student portal to begin your payment.
Go to the payment/fees section of your student portal.
Select the country from where you are paying and your preferred payment method.
Enter your payment details and confirm your payment booking.
Receive instructions on how to complete the payment process, depending on your payment method.
Once payment is made you will have access to real-time payment tracking through email, in-app and text alerts.

Helpful Video about Fee Payments
A step-by-step guide to assist you with how to make your payment on Flywire. http://portal.westernsydneyinternational.edu.au/ https://www.flywire.com/ https://help.flywire.com/hc/en-us https://www.flywire.com/legal/best-price-guarantee http://portal.westernsydneyinternational.edu.au/ Ready to Make Your Payment?
Need Help?
Visit Flywire FAQ page for guidance on frequently asked questions. Alternatively, please email support@flywire.com or call +61 2 8311 4772  Monday–Friday, 8.30 am – 5.00 pm AEST.
Credit/Debit Card
To pay via Credit/Debit card, please visit the campus located at Level 6, 6 Hassall Street, Parramatta in person. We currently only accept Visa and MasterCard.
BPAY (via Phone or Internet Banking)
BPAY is the online payment system in Australia that enables you to pay a bill using your Australian bank account.
The International College BPAY Biller Code is: 216598
BPAY reference number: Refer to your offer letter.
We acknowledge the Traditional Owners, Custodians and Elders past and present of the Indigenous Nations of the Darug, Gundungurra, D’harawal, Wiradjuri and Bundjalung on whose lands we work. https://help.flywire.com/hc/en-us mailto:support@flywire.com