Title: Science - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Western Sydney University International College's Foundation Studies Program in Science helps international students enter into first year at Western Sydney University
Modified Time: 2024-09-02T01:14:38+00:00

Page Content:
Course Overview
Foundation Studies Program in Science is a university entry program designed for international students who have completed a minimum of year 11 or its equivalent. Science programs combine advanced academic knowledge with practical real-life training.
Delivery mode: This course is delivered face-to-face/ on campus. Potential Careers
Foundation Studies Program in Science may open the door to a career as a:

Scientists
Environmentalists
Forensics Officer

Find out more about Science Undergraduate Programs at Western Sydney University here.
Additional Information
Learning Methods
Teacher-directed learning: Teachers use explicit teaching techniques to teach, Example: Lecture, presentation, interactive tutorials.
Group work: A structured learning environment that emphasizes specific outcomes and does not require teacher intervention involves two or more students working together.
Technology based Learning: Use of technology, such as computers and electronic devices to enhance the learning experience.
Lab based/Kinaesthetic Learning: Students undertake practical work which develops experimental and design skills data collection and analytical capabilities problem solving skills and professional practice.
Discussion: Group discussions that involve a full class or small groups of students, often led by peers.
Collaborative Learning: Collaborative learning incorporates activities ranging from classroom discussions to problem-solving in groups to working in teams to achieve common learning goals. Students exchange ideas, contribute opinions and critical feedback from their peers.
Problem Solving method: Students are involved in problem solving task based on course content. This approach prepares students to learn critical thinking and develop problem solving skills and acquire knowledge.
Student Research: Develops students’ skills of critical analysis and ability to make judgements and come to conclusions. This also helps students to recognise rapid changes in knowledge.
Role Play/Simulation:  Simulated real-life scenarios where students assume a specific role or character in supervised environments to achieve common learning goals and also to create effective learning experiences for students.
Case Study/Case Method: It requires students to find realistic ways to solve realistic questions based on context, develop the ability to recognize different possible answers, and at the same time develop theoretical understanding and problem-solving skills.
More information about the Foundation Studies in Science.
Click here to view the student guide for Foundation Studies programs.
Western Sydney University International College delivers Extended Foundation Studies Program in Science (CRICOS Course Code 0100887) and Standard Foundation Studies Program in Science (CRICOS Course Code 0100890) under its CRICOS Provider Code 03663C.
The Standard and Extended Foundation programs meet the requirements for Foundation Programs which have been registered on CRICOS for delivery in Australia to overseas students. They provide an academic preparation for seeking entry to first year undergraduate study or its equivalent.
Intellectual Property for some courses including material may be owned by Western Sydney University and are used by Western Sydney University International College in accordance with Licence Agreement.
This course is accredited by the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA), and is authorised to be offered to international  students studying on an international student visa, under the Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS). Further information can be found at https://www.teqsa.gov.au/provider/western-sydney-university-international-college-pty-ltd https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/future/study/courses/science-courses https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/wp-content/uploads/FS-SCI-2024.pdf https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/wp-content/uploads/FS-Quick-Guide-for-Students-as-at-March-2024.pdf https://www.teqsa.gov.au/provider/western-sydney-university-international-college-pty-ltd