Title: Security & Critical Incidents - Western Sydney University International College
Description: No description found
Modified Time: 2024-08-12T09:45:20+00:00

Page Content:
Campus Security & Critical Incidents Your safety on campus is one of our biggest priorities. If you have immediate concerns for your safety, please call Western Sydney University International College Campus Safety & Security on (02) 9685 9890 located on the ground floor of 6 Hassall St.
Campus Safety & Security
Campus Safety & Security makes a significant contribution to the Western Sydney University International College community, providing a safe and secure environment for our students, staff and visitors. We also ensure that our campus, building and facility is secure, safe and accessible when needed.
Examples of security activities include:

campus patrols by foot, bicycle and vehicle
CCTV and alarm monitoring
personal escorts
building access
security checks
incident and first aid responses
major event assistance
security design and implementation for projects and changes occurring at the University
Security Risk Assessments undertaken by fully qualified staff in accordance with ISO Standard 2009:31000

Safety Concerns
Feeling safe and secure both on and off campus contributes to a positive study experience. Our University – should this be College? campus is among the safest in Australia, however, being vigilant with your personal safety assists in maintaining a safe and secure experience for all of us.
Everyone has a responsibility to ensure Western Sydney University is a safe environment. If someone or something draws your attention and concern on campus, be sure to report it to Campus Safety and Security. Call Western Sydney University International College Campus Safety & Security on (02) 9685 9890 (located on the ground floor of 6 Hassall St) if you have immediate concerns for your personal safety.
Emergency Contacts

In an emergency, call 000 for ambulance, police and fire 24 hours a day.
For non-emergencies, call the Police Assistance Line on 131 444.

Critical Incidents
A critical incident can be regarded as any incident that puts the University community or any part of it under major stress. This may also include a relatively minor incident which has the potential to cause a major impact. A critical incident may take place on or off campus. Appropriate management of critical incidents is extremely important in preventing secondary trauma.
Some examples of critical incidents are:

Serious traffic accidents
Death of students/staff or others on campus, due to health related complications
Serious crime, such as physical or sexual assault
Mental health emergency associated with a significant behavioural disturbance
Threats of self-harm or harm to others that cause an impact to bystanders
Injury or death of a colleague
Fire, explosion or bomb threat
Major theft or vandalism
Threat of infection/pandemic
Storms/natural disasters.

You can read about related critical incident policies here including:

Critical Incident Management Policy
Mental Health & Wellbeing Response and Management Policy
Emergency Response Guidelines

There are a range of incidents that may require a response from Campus Safety and Security. Call Western Sydney University International College Campus Safety & Security on (02) 9685 9890 (located on the ground floor of 6 Hassall St) if you have immediate concerns for your personal safety. https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/about/international-college/policies-procedures