Title: Student Responsibilities - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Get to know what your responsibilities are as a student at Western Sydney University International College
Modified Time: 2024-07-05T11:00:25+00:00

Page Content:
Student Responsibilities
Your responsibilities as a Western Sydney University International College student. Your Responsibilities
As a holder of an international student visa, issue by the Department of Home Affairs, you should always maintain your visa conditions referenced in your visa grant letter. If you are unsure of any of the conditions listed, please come and see one of our friendly Student Services team.
If you are a new student enrolling for the first time, you must complete the enrolment steps as advised by Student Services during Enrolment sessions.
As a student at Western Sydney University International College you have agreed to:
1. Follow the rules
Students are bound by a number of rules, by-laws and policies. You need to make sure you know and comply with the rules for students set out in Western Sydney University International College policies and keep up to date when policies change. Breaching these policies may lead to charges of academic, research and/or general misconduct and could seriously affect your course.
A list of the most accessed student-related policies is available on the policies and procedures webpage here.
2. Check and use your student email account
Your Western Sydney University International College student email account is the official communication channel between you and Western Sydney University International College. While you’re a current Western Sydney University International College student, you must:

Check your student email account frequently (daily if possible)
Only use your student email account when corresponding with Western Sydney University International College via email

3. Satisfy your study/attendance requirements
Study requirements are all the things you need to do to successfully enrol, complete your units and complete your course. You must attend at least 80% of the course and make satisfactory academic progress. Students who do not attend or progress satisfactorily may be reported to DoHA.
Completing your course
Each unit (subject) you study has requirements/rules you must meet, such as:

units may have a pre or co-requisite – that is another unit you must have completed before or at the same time. Check the pattern of study to see if it has a pre or co-requisite
assessments tasks and due dates – all the assessment tasks you must complete including instructions, weight of the mark and due date
referencing rules – the accepted referencing style for that unit
plagiarism rules – the rules about plagiarism including expected conduct and potential consequences
required course equipment – any unit-specific equipment needed to complete practical and work placement elements
attendance expectations – expected attendance for lectures, tutorials, labs and any other classes

Unit requirements and rules will differ from unit to unit. Specific unit rules are detailed in the unit outline. It is your responsibility to read your unit outlines and meet the expectations and deadlines in order to successfully complete each unit.
Paying your fees
You must pay or defer your tuition fees/Student Contribution and any other applicable fees by the relevant deadlines . If you do not pay or defer your fees you may lose access to services or your enrolment may be cancelled.
If you don’t pay your fees by their due dates, Western Sydney University International College may take action to recover any outstanding fees. This may include disclosing your personal information to debt collection agencies.
4. Provide true and accurate information for Western Sydney University International College’s use
Any and all information you provide to Western Sydney University International College must be true, accurate and complete. Western Sydney University International College relies on you to provide accurate information and will not be responsible for any errors arising out of inaccurate information you supply.
If information and documentation you have supplied is found to be incorrect, you may be held accountable under Western Sydney University International College’s misconduct rules. You must notify Western Sydney University International College of any change to your personal information, including your contact information, no later than five (5) working days after any change.
Western Sydney University International College collects and holds your personal information to carry out its educational, administrative and operational functions. This may include, but is not limited to, verifying admission criteria, keeping correct enrolment and student records and complying with Department of Education and Training (DET) and record keeping legislation.
Western Sydney University International College may also disclose your personal information to persons or organisations external to Western Sydney University International College, including other educational institutions, government departments and agencies and organisations affiliated with Western Sydney University International College. This may include any information related to your academic record, findings of misconduct against you or your exclusion from study by Western Sydney University International College. You can find more information about this on the Privacy webpage.
5. Keep your personal and contact details up to date
Contact details
It is your responsibility to make sure your contact details are up to date in Axis while you are a current Western Sydney University International College student. This includes your address, mobile number, home phone number, emergency contact and next of kin. If you move house or get a new mobile, make sure you update Axis with your new details!
Mobile number for emergencies
Western Sydney University International College sends urgent information and emergency messages to students by SMS. Western Sydney University International College may also call your mobile phone in emergency situations. These may include urgent notices about your enrolment and being discontinued, last minute exam changes and emergency situations on campus. It is your responsibility to keep your mobile number up to date and entered in the correct ‘Mobile Number’ field in Axis. https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/privacy/