Title: Under 18 Students - Western Sydney University International College
Description: No description found
Modified Time: 2024-07-05T11:56:44+00:00

Page Content:
Under 18 Students Under 18 Students
We understand that transitioning to a new environment can be a significant change for a young student, often accompanied by concerns from parents and/or guardians. In addition to prioritising the safety and well-being of all our students, we have established suitable measures to monitor the welfare and academic progress of international students under 18 who have approved welfare arrangements with the International College.
Western Sydney University International College accepts international students under 18 years of age, studying on a student visa, where they meet the following requirements:

Meets other admission requirements;
Is of at least 17 years of age; and
Will live in Australia until they turn 18 either:

with their parent or legal guardian;
with a suitable relative whom the parent or legal guardian nominates; or
under an accommodation and welfare arrangement approved by the University.



Welfare arrangements when students are on-shore include: 

Meeting with your welfare case manager upon arrival as well as regular fortnightly meetings until you turn 18 years of age. Note: meetings may be face or face or online.
Directing students to access other support services where necessary.
Maintaining regular contact with the homestay provider to ensure the student’s needs are being met.

For all students under the age of 18, who do not have a parent or other family member in Australia, it is a legal requirement to stay with an Australian host family until you turn 18 years of age. Homestay can help you settle into your new life quickly, providing the opportunity to participate in the daily routine of an Australian family and practice your English language skills.
To find out more, please contact the providers below for more information and booking details.
Family Homestay Services: familyhomestay.com.au
Global Experience: bglobalexperience.com.au
All About Homestay: allabouthomestay.com.au
International students under 18 years of age can complete Western Sydney University International College’s Accommodation and Welfare Approval Application here. http://familyhomestay.com.au/ https://www.globalexperience.com.au/ https://allabouthomestay.com.au/ https://internationalcollege.westernsydney.edu.au/about/international-college/documents-forms