Title: About Western Sydney University - Western Sydney University International College
Description: Learn about Western Sydney University, located in the heart of one of Australia's fastest growing economic regions
Modified Time: 2024-07-08T12:02:07+00:00

Page Content:
About Western Sydney University
Located in the heart of one of Australia's fastest growing economic regions, Western Sydney University offers unlimited potential to students with the talent, drive and ambition to succeed. Western Sydney is an exciting place to be. As the nation’s third largest economy and one of the fastest growing population and employment centres, it is an increasingly important, dynamic and culturally diverse hub of business, industry and innovation.
With a large multicultural population of more than two million people from 170 nations, Western Sydney’s global links are creating unlimited opportunities for international business, investment, education and cultural exchange.
Your Success Starts Here

Western Sydney is Australia’s third largest and fastest growing economy. With a large multicultural population and expanding international reach, we are uniquely placed to help students tap into a global mindset.
Our student-centred approach is responsive to your needs. We offer you the choice of on-campus, online and flexible study options combined with work-integrated learning in clinical, community and professional environments.
We empower students to share ideas, constructively challenge their lecturers and one-another through peer-to-peer mentoring, and develop their creativity and cognitive skills through degrees such as Applied Leadership and Critical Thinking.
We acknowledge that in today’s fast-paced and changing world universities don’t have the monopoly on knowledge or education. Through our approach we also work with our community, business partners and industry leaders to develop course content that meets the needs of employers, the jobs of the future and responds to the challenges of a global workplace.
From our online learning environments, use of digital technologies to enhance the study experience, to on-campus computer laboratories, innovative social learning spaces, and state-of-the-art research and clinical facilities, we adopt new and emerging technologies to provide a richer educational experience.
We see learning and research as connected aspects of the student experience. Our research ethos is underpinned by a commitment to make positive change in the world, putting you close to world-leading research that is changing lives in the communities we serve.
With our growing international reach and reputation, we offer the opportunity to travel, learn and work in more than 300 destinations around the world through our Global Mobility, internship and work-placement programs.

Find out more about Western Sydney University.
Ranked amongst the top two per cent of universities in the world, Western Sydney University values academic excellence, integrity and the pursuit of knowledge. We are globally focused, research-led and committed to making a positive impact on the communities we engage with. https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/